The news published on the date August 03, 2024 04:08 PM IST with headline  A $1 trillion time bomb is ticking in the housing market is: 
 A $1 trillion time bomb is ticking in the housing market Cassandras seldom get opportunities to be right about two disasters. Even the original Cassandra scored no notable victories after predicting the fall of Troy. But when a seer who successfully called one catastrophe warns of another coming, you might want to listen.Years ahead of the financial crisis, David Burt saw trouble brewing in subprime mortgages and started betting on a crisis, winning himself a cameo in The Big Short by Michael Lewis in addition to lots of money. Now Burt runs DeltaTerra Capital, a research firm he founded to warn investors about the next housing crisis. This one will be caused by climate change.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn a webinar with journalists last month, Burt argued that US homeowners’ wildfire and flood risks are underinsured by $28.7 billion a year. As a result, Markets.“This is not a ‘global financial crisis’ kind of event,” Burt said, noting the total housing market is worth about $45 trillion. “But in the communities where the impacts are happening, it will feel like the Great Recession.”Burt’s estimate may actually be on the conservative side. The climate-risk research firm First Street Foundation last year estimated that 39 million US homes — nearly half of all single-family homes in the country — are underinsured against natural disasters, including 6.8 million relying on state-backed insurers of last resort.
 
The news published on the date August 03, 2024 10:01 AM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Weekender | Is the Fed behind the curve again? is: 
 - Dear Reader,The markets seem to have been inspired by the Paris Olympics to climb to Olympian heights. After all, the Olympic motto ‘Faster, Higher, Stronger’ could very well be a description of recent market behaviour. But while the markets rose very high very fast, they weren’t really stronger. That is seen from the bout of angst that overwhelmed the markets at the end of the week.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIt’s funny that this nervousness comes during a week that finally saw the US Fed signal that a September rate cut is on the table. As my colleague Anubhav Sahu wrote, Fed chair Powell mentioned the possibility of a rate cut several times during his press conference. US bond yields fell, the USD weakened, and stocks soared. A day later, while bond yields stayed down, equities fell sharply on worries over slowing growth. The Vix shot up.And then, on Friday, came the confirmation that the US economy is indeed slowing much more rapidly than expected. Non-farm payrolls for July came in at 114,000 while the estimate was of 176,000 jobs. Private-sector firms added 97,000 jobs in July, the weakest since March 2023. The unemployment rate was 4.3 percent, against the estimated 4.1 percent. Average wage gains fell to their lowest level since May 2021.The Fed funds futures markets, which on Thursday were assigning a 22 percent probability that the Fed would cut the policy rate by 50 basis points in September, suddenly upped that probability to around 60 percent. The probability that the Fed Funds rate will be lower by over 100 basis points from its current level by December this year jumped to over 80 percent when the non-farm payrolls data came out.Reflecting all this, US bond yields plunged, as did the USD, stock futures and commodities, while the Vix and gold prices shot up.
 
The news published on the date August 02, 2024 05:40 PM IST with headline  The Reading List: August 2, 2024 is: 
 Here's a list of articles from economy, business and finance for your weekend read. In a world strapped for time, we thought you may find it useful to have a selection of articles we read this past week. As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. Occasionally, we may stray from these subjects.These links may be from external websites we frequent o
 
The news published on the date August 02, 2024 04:13 PM IST with headline  Business in the Week Ahead: August 5-9, 2024 is: 
 The prospect of an interest rate cut by the US Federal Reserve has sent equity markets to fresh highs. Focus will now shift to the Reserve Bank of India’s monetary policy. The central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee is scheduled to meet on August 6-8 to decide on interest rates and monetary policy. Elsewhere, the Reserve Bank of Australia will also decide on interest rates.Final purchasing managers indices (PMI), money supply, bank deposit and loan growth are th
 
The news published on the date August 02, 2024 05:46 PM IST with headline  Retail Media Revolution: Transforming India's advertising landscape is: 
 The real revolution lies in how retail media is expanding beyond these digital marketplaces. By Russhabh R ThakkarRetail media is undergoing a transformative phase in India, reshaping the dynamics of advertising and consumer engagement. This revolution, known as retail media, is not just another fleeting trend but a fundamental shift in the advertising ecosystem. As we stand on the cusp of this transformation, it is crucial to understand its implications for India's diverse and rapidly growing market. The Indian digital marketplace has undergone a remarkable evolution over the past decade. At its core, retail media represents the convergence of e-commerce and advertising. It is a world where every click, every search, and every purchase becomes a valuable data point, offering unprecedented insights into consumer behavior. But to truly grasp the significance of this shift, we must first understand the journey that has led us here.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Digital Marketplace TransformationIt began as a niche market for tech-savvy urban dwellers and has blossomed into a vast ecosystem that touches the lives of millions across the country. The catalysts for this growth have been numerous—from the proliferation of affordable smartphones to the rollout of high-speed internet infrastructure. However, it was during the pandemic that this digital transformation truly accelerated, pushing even the most reluctant consumers into the online realm.The Power of First-Party Data
 
The news published on the date August 02, 2024 03:28 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Infosys and the unease of doing business is: 
 Infosys must pay IGST for the services it provides through its foreign branches and take input tax credit under the reverse charge mechanism. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIT bellwether Infosys came face to face with a nightmare no company wants to have: a huge demand notice from the taxmen. The Directorate General of Goods and Services Tax Intelligence (DGGI) has asked Infosys to cough up a colossal Rs 32,403.6 crore, which is more than the IT giant’s full year profits. This, the taxmen state, is towards Integrated-GST that is applicable on services received from its overseas branches.To be sure, this is more of a cashflow problem for Infosys than an outright tax payment. As stated by DGGI, the company must pay IGST for the services it provides through its foreign branches and take input tax credit under the reverse charge mechanism. In simple terms, Infosys needs to pay tax upfront but can claim credit later, citing these as business expenses.That said, cashflows are the blood of any business and a sudden outflow can avalanche into bigger problems.
 
The news published on the date August 02, 2024 03:00 PM IST with headline  New record of over 7.28 crore income-tax returns filed: Tax dept is: 
 The income tax returns (ITRs) filed for the assessment year 2024-25 compares to 6.77 crore filed last year A new record of over 7.28 crore income tax returns were filed by the July 31 deadline, the income tax department said on Friday.The income tax returns (ITRs) filed for the assessment year 2024-25 compares to 6.77 crore filed last year, it added.”Out of the total ITRs of 7.28 crore filed for AY 2024-25, 5.27 crore have been filed in the new tax regime compared to 2.01 crore ITRs filed in the Old Tax Regime,” the tax department said in a statement.Story continues below AdvertisementThe filing of ITRs peaked on July 31, 2024 (the due date for salaried taxpayers and other non-tax audit cases), with over 69.92 lakh ITRs being filed on a single day.The department also received 58.57 lakh ITRs from first-time filers, a fair indication of the widening of the tax base
 
The news published on the date August 02, 2024 02:34 PM IST with headline  MeitY raises alarm over data breaches impacting trust in DPI initiatives is: 
 DPI which stands for digital public infrastructure includes Aadhaar, UPI and so on The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) is concerned about the impact of data breaches on digital public infrastructure (DPI), particularly regarding the retention of citizens' trust in such initiatives, an internal presentation by the ministry revealed."High-profile data breaches and incidents erodes public trust in DPI initiatives," said the presentation, which focused on the broader theme of the Digital Personal Data Protection Act.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe presentation was made to stakeholders in June, following the swearing-in of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government for a third consecutive term. Moneycontrol has reviewed a copy of the presentation.Distrust around India's DPI, especially Aadhaar, arises from privacy and security concerns. Issues include data breaches, unauthorised access, and potential misuse of the biometric and demographic data collected. Critics also worry about the centralisation of sensitive data making it vulnerable to cyber attacks and the lack of strong legal frameworks to protect privacy.According to the presentation, the ministry is also finding it challenging to strike the right balance between data access for service delivery and data protection. "Striking the right balance between data access for service delivery and data protection -- a complex challenge," it said.
 
The news published on the date August 02, 2024 02:28 PM IST with headline  Centre starts work on Annual Survey of Industries 2023-24 is: 
 Govt starts collating Annual Survey of Industries data for 2023-24 The government has begun the process of data collection for the Annual Survey of Industries 2023-24, which shall help determine the state of organised manufacturing in the country, which is also used for GDP calculations.“The Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation hereby directs collection of statistics on manufacturing and related activities through a statistical survey, referred to as ‘Annual Survey of Industries 2023-24,” the ministry stated in a notification issued on July 31.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Annual Survey Industries helps estimate the number of organised manufacturing establishments in the country and the employment, value added of these enterprises.“Statistics relating to growth, composition and structure of organised manufacturing sector comprising activities related to manufacturing processes, repair services, gas and water supply and cold storage is collected through the Annual Survey of Industries 2023-24,” the notification said.Results released for FY22 data showed that India’s factory employment crossed pre-Covid levels, with job creation rising 7 percent during the period.
 
The news published on the date August 02, 2024 05:11 PM IST with headline  Rural jobs conundrum: Farm sector employment hits 17-year high in FY23, defying trends is: 
 More jobs in agriculture The number of people employed in agriculture, hunting, forestry and fishing scaled a 17-year high to 253 million in FY23, according to RBI data on capital, labour, energy, materials and service (KLEMS).FY23 was also the first year since FY07 when agriculture employment crossed 250 million, with 50 million added in the last four years. In FY23, agriculture added 4.8 million jobs, surpassing manufacturing and trade combined at 4.4 million.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEconomists, however, contend that the turn towards agriculture may be a cause of the sector outperforming the overall economy."The rise in agricultural employment can be attributed to high growth in the sector, particularly due to growing output in livestock, forestry and fishing," said Laveesh Bhandari, president at the Centre for Social and Economic Progress (CSEP).
 
The news published on the date August 01, 2024 12:26 PM IST with headline  Commercial LPG price hiked Rs 6.5 per cylinder, ATF price up 2% is: 
 ATF price hiked 2%, commercial LPG up Rs 6.5 per cylinder Jet fuel, or ATF price, on August 1 was hiked 2 percent and the rate of commercial LPG used by hotels and restaurants by Rs 6.5 per 19-kg cylinder in the monthly revision done in line with international oil price trends.Aviation turbine fuel (ATF) price was hiked Rs 1,827.34 per kilolitre, or 1.9 per cent, to Rs 97,975.72 per kl in the national capital, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThis is second straight monthly increase in jet fuel rates. ATF prices were on July 1 hiked by 1.2 per cent (Rs 1,179.37 per kl). That increase followed a steep 6.5 per cent (Rs 6,673.87 per kl) reduction effected on June 1.The ATF rate in Mumbai was increased to Rs 91,650.34 per kl on Thursday from Rs 89,908.31 previously.Prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes.
 
The news published on the date August 01, 2024 12:48 PM IST with headline  Government may decriminalise delay in TCS filing in Finance Bill, says CBDT chairman is: 
 TCS is the tax collected by sellers during transactions with buyers, The Union Budget has proposed a number of tax simplification measures, and the Finance Bill is likely to include decriminalisation of delay in filing of Tax Collected at Source (TCS), according to Ravi Agarwal, Chairman, Central Board of Direct Taxes.Any delay in filing TCS falls under the purview of a criminal offence.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHowever, the proposed relief is being considered on the similar lines as announced for Tax Deducted at Source (TDS) in the Union Budget.“For TCS also, we may do that (decriminalisation for delayed payment). We will take care of that, and may make appropriate amendments in the Finance Bill. We will make a decision soon,” Agarwal told Moneycontrol.The Union Budget has made provisions allowing payments to be made up to the filing of the TDS return for the respective quarter in a bid to reduce compliance burden on taxpayers.
 
The news published on the date August 01, 2024 11:22 AM IST with headline  What Opec’s next big goal should be is: 
 - Adi ImsirovicOpec is facing the greatest challenge since its inception. The world needs to stop burning oil and limit global warming below 2C, along the lines of the Paris Agreement by nations on climate change. The general consensus is that oil use needs to shrink by as much as 80 per cent by the middle of the century if we are to meet the Paris goals. The impact of such a fall will be devastating for man
 
The news published on the date August 01, 2024 11:06 AM IST with headline  UPI transaction value stays above Rs 20 lakh crore for 3rd straight month in July is: 
 UPI volumes in July UPI transaction value stayed above Rs 20 lakh crore for the third month in a row in July, according to data released by the National Payments Corporation of India on August 1.The total value of transactions using the digital payment service rose to Rs 20.64 lakh crore compared with Rs 20.07 lakh crore in the previous month.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe average daily transaction volume was higher at 465 million, compared with 463 million a month back, while the value of transactions declined to Rs 66,590 crore, compared with RS 66,903 crore in June.The volume of transactions on the digital payments service was 14.44 million in July as against 13.89 million in the previous month.
 
The news published on the date August 01, 2024 11:29 AM IST with headline  Manufacturing activity eases to 58.1 in July, experts foresee pickup in capex utilisation soon is: 
 Manufacturing PMI for July Manufacturing activity eased to 58.1 in July from 58.3 a month back, as new orders and ouput growth slowed marginally, results of a private survey released on August 1 showed.“India’s headline manufacturing PMI showed a marginal slowdown in the pace of expansion in July, but with most components remaining at robust levels, the small drop is no cause for concern," said Pranjul Bhandari, chief India economist, HSBC.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe seasonally adjusted HSBC India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index remained higher than the long-term average for yet another month, as the economy kept humming at the start of the second quarter.Exports remained a bright spot with international sales expanding at the second-strongest rate in over 13 years.
 
The news published on the date August 01, 2024 09:47 AM IST with headline  Govt extends deadline for meeting MPS norms till Aug 2026 is: 
 Govt extends deadline for meeting MPS norms till Aug 2026 The government has extended the deadline for meeting minimum public shareholding norms for central public sector enterprises and public sector financial institutions till August 2026.The central government in the public interest provided exemption up to August 1, 2026, to increase public shareholding to at least 25 per cent in CPSEs and public sector banks and financial institutions, according to an office memorandum issued by the Ministry of Finance.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdCentral Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs) with public shareholding below 25 per cent and which could not increase their public shareholding to at least 25 per cent within the timeline stipulated in Rule 19A of Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules 1957 will now get time for another two years.As per the earlier order, the two-year exemption was to end on August 1, 2024.The Securities and Exchange Board of India is requested to take further necessary action and bring this to the notice of the stock exchanges concerned, it said.
 
The news published on the date August 01, 2024 09:24 AM IST with headline  What the budgetary allocations tell us about government priorities is: 
 - HighlightsThe allocation to the Ministry of Human Resource development for FY25 as a share of total expenditure is below its share pre-pandemic and even the pre-pandemicA similar situation is visible in health although the focus on sanitation means that drinking water and sanitation has seen the budgetary allocation increaseThe government does want to improve the education and employability of the masses through skill development but is keen on the private sector participating in these initiativesWhere has th
 
The news published on the date July 31, 2024 11:04 PM IST with headline  Emerging assets climb as traders expect Fed to signal rate cuts is: 
 Emerging assets climb as traders expect Fed to signal rate cuts Emerging-market equities and currencies climbed on expectations the Federal Reserve to leave interest rates unchanged on Wednesday, but nod toward a cut in September, boosting risk appetite.MSCI’s index for stocks in developing nations rose the most in three weeks, partially buoyed by earnings and a rally in Chinese shares as weak data fueled hopes for stimulus. Still, the gauge is set to post its first monthly losses since January.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA similar index for emerging currencies also gained, with 20 strengthening against the dollar out of 23 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.The strength in currencies were driven by the “anticipation of a dovish Fed hold as well as general dollar weakness,” said Win Thin, global head of markets strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman.Central bankers from Brazil, Colombia and Chile are also due to meet to set rates in a region that has already moved toward easing. Brazil is expected to keep rates steady, Chile is forecast to cut by a quarter-point, and Colombia is likely to deliver a half-point drop.
 
The news published on the date July 31, 2024 10:54 PM IST with headline  Nasdaq, S&P 500 ride chip-stock wave before Fed decision; Microsoft falters is: 
 Nasdaq, S&P 500 ride chip-stock wave before Fed decision; Microsoft falters The Nasdaq and the S&P 500 jumped around 2% on Wednesday, as investors hoped for hints from the Federal Reserve on the timing of rate cuts, a bullish forecast from AMD boosted chip stocks and Microsoft slipped after a higher spending forecast.Both the S&P 500 and the Nasdaq hit one-week highs and were on track to log their biggest one-day gains since February.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAdvanced Micro Devices (AMD.O), opens new tab climbed 5% after lifting its 2024 forecast for AI-chip sales, helping Nvidia (NVDA.O), opens new tab jump 12%.The Philadelphia SE Semiconductor index (.SOX), opens new tab rose 5%, set for its biggest one-day gain since May 2023, but on track for its worst month since October 2023 after the recent chip stocks rout."In many cases, chip stocks are overvalued at this point. There may be some room for them to run here, but then again they're not going to be able to maintain that pace," said Paul Nolte, senior wealth adviser and market strategist for Murphy & Sylvest.
 
The news published on the date July 31, 2024 09:07 PM IST with headline  Treasuries rally into Fed meeting with a September cut at stake is: 
 Treasuries rally into Fed meeting with a September cut at stake The US Treasury market rallied in the hours before the Federal Reserve’s July announcement, buoyed by economic data that backs the case for a September interest-rate cut.The advances sent benchmark yields tumbling on Wednesday, with two-year yields down by as much as 4 basis points to 4.32%, the lowest since February. The yield on five-year notes dropped below 4% to the lowest since February as evidence of a softening labor market cemented expectations that policymakers will start reducing US borrowing costs this year.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhile central bankers led by Fed Chair Jerome Powell will likely hold rates steady as their two-day policy meeting concludes on Wednesday, traders are keen for evidence that policymakers are ready to cut rates in September. Interest-rate swaps reflect expectations for a quarter-point rate reduction at that meeting, with a slight chance for a half-point move.“A lot is priced in already,” said Leah Traub, portfolio manager at Lord Abbett & Co. “It will be hard for the Fed and Powell to be more dovish than the market at this point.” Bond yields fall with employment costs
 
The news published on the date July 31, 2024 09:43 AM IST with headline  Decoding Economics | Stock picking is alive and well is: 
 The paper says that for most currencies, both own and foreign currency investors’ flows are positively correlated with the equity price growth rates and are statistically significant The question of what determines stock prices, especially in the aggregate, has been a pet research topic for financial economists and analysts alike. Is it fund flows, the wealth effect, loose monetary policy by central banks, earnings growth, valuations, themes in fashion, or stock selection? A new NBER paper with the eye-catching title ' is the latest in the genre. Among its findings is one that says, "Stock picking is alive and well’’. Tha
 
The news published on the date July 31, 2024 08:40 AM IST with headline  Growing remittances an excellent example of India’s demographic dividend is: 
 HighlightsThe RBI Report on Currency and Finance for 2023-24 says remittances have become the main source of finance for low- and middle-income countries, even exceeding FDI flows by US$ 274 billion in 2023, according to the World BankIndia’s share of global remittances has gone up from 8 percent in 2005 to 13.5 percent in 2023Remittances also provide much needed stability to foreign capital inflows and are directly used by recipients, contributing to the economyTo be sure, ther
 
The news published on the date July 31, 2024 07:44 AM IST with headline  Reserve Bank of India to hold rates in August, first cut in Q4 is: 
 Reserve Bank of India to hold rates in August, first cut in Q4 The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will keep interest rates steady for a ninth straight meeting in August due to persistently high inflation, with a slim majority of economists in a Reuters poll expecting the first rate cut next quarter.A sharp spike in food prices drove inflation in Asia's third-largest economy to a five-month high of 5.08% in June, well above the RBI's 4% medium-term target, suggesting the central bank will be wary of easing monetary policy too soon.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWith gross domestic product (GDP) growth of around 8% over the past few years - the fastest among major world economies - and inflation not expected to fall to 4% anytime soon, the RBI has little reason to rush an interest rate cut.All 59 economists in the latest Reuters poll predicted the RBI would hold the repo rate at 6.50% at the conclusion of its August 6-8 meeting. It was the first rates survey taken after the July 23 budget, in which the government kept borrowing targets in check."We still believe the RBI will keep rates on hold at the upcoming meeting...but expect to see a first rate cut in Q4. With the headline number picking up again in June, inflation has remained too high for policymakers to consider a dovish move just yet," said Alexandra Hermann, lead economist at Oxford Economics.
 
The news published on the date July 30, 2024 11:03 PM IST with headline  Goyal pulls up industry for apathy towards govt's efforts to promote make-in-India is: 
 Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal Commerce minister Piyush Goyal on July 30 came down heavily on domestic industry for their lack of ideas and initiatives on a range of policies by the government, including ease of doing business and Make in India.Ironically, speaking at an event organised by apex industry body Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Goyal said, "When I appeal to you that one person can you use a (made-in-India) product by another person, you say you can save if you import that same product. Are you even worried about India's foreign exchange? Foreign exchange is not your responsibility! It is the RBI's and government's responsibility!"Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdGoyal also criticised the industry for not actively taking part in committees tasked to design and fine-tune government policies such as the production-linked incentive scheme (PLI)."PLI scheme came out of a SCALE committee (Steering Committee on Advancing Local value-add and Exports). Pawan Goenka headed it. I want to know which industry partners of CII attended and took part in the SCALE committee meetings or recommendations actively. FICCI and Assocham were never part of these meetings. So, it is important you make up your mind. You tell us how do we initiate change?"Also read: India Inc's resistance on tax concessions could hinder FTAs with UK, EU, says Piyush Goyal
 
The news published on the date July 30, 2024 07:51 PM IST with headline  Sovereign gold bonds will get at least 12% total return: Revenue Secy is: 
 The current interest rate for the Sovereign Gold Bond Scheme is 2.5 percent per annum The sovereign gold bonds will get at least 12 percent total return, including interest, for the investors despite the Union budget cutting customs duties on gold and silver to 6 percent from 15 percent, Revenue Secretary Sanjay Malhotra said on July 30.“I want to assure that despite the rate reduction in gold import duty, the sovereign gold bonds nearing final redemption will still get at least 12 percent total return, if not 12.7-12.8 percent. Even 12 percent return is not low,” Malhotra said at the post-Budget session at the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTill now, the investors have received approximately 9-11 percent return per annum and on top of that an interest of 2.5 percent, a senior government official had earlier told Moneycontrol.In July 2022, the import duty on gold was increased due to prevailing circumstances, including a worsening current account deficit (CAD) at that time as a measure to curb imports.“We are now in a comfortable position in the current account deficit,” he said.
 
The news published on the date July 30, 2024 06:38 PM IST with headline  Capex now top priority for the government: MC Analysis is: 
 Education and health expenditure has not been the primary focus of government While India has upped its spend on building roads and highways to 3.4 percent of GDP in FY25 from 1.7 percent in FY14, its spending on education has been on a decline. Education spending as a share of GDP is set to decline to 0.37 percent in FY25, from 0.63 percent in FY14.Data shows that the government has directed much of its funding priorities towards building infrastructure, but health and education have not been accorded a similar importance, at least if measured in terms of spending as a percentage of GDP.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn FY24, the government spent 0.44 percent of the GDP on education compared with 0.63 percent a decade ago.Education spending is set to decline further in FY25 to 0.37 percent of the GDP, as the government is expected to allocate Rs 10,000 crore less to the department of higher education.On the other hand, health spending at 0.3 percent of the GDP has remained constant over the two decades.
 
The news published on the date July 30, 2024 05:29 PM IST with headline  Rupee edges up 1 paisa to close at 83.72 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee edges up 1 paisa to close at 83.72 against US dollar The rupee appreciated 1 paisa to close at 83.72 (provisional) against the US dollar on Tuesday amid a positive trend in domestic markets ahead of the US Fed policy announcement.The domestic currency was trading in a tight range of 83.72-83.74 throughout the session.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange market, it opened flat at 83.73 and ended the day at 83.72 (provisional) against the US dollar, a gain of just one paisa.Traders said expectations were high that the Federal Reserve might signal a rate cut as early as September. The US Fed has left the borrowing rates at a near-quarter-century high for the past year in its aggressive fight against inflation."Strength in the domestic markets and weak crude oil prices supported the rupee. However, a positive US dollar and FII outflows capped sharp gains. The US dollar strengthened ahead of the FOMC meeting with some inflows towards the greenback," Anuj Choudhary, Research Analyst at Sharekhan by BNP Paribas, said.
 
The news published on the date July 30, 2024 05:13 PM IST with headline  Sebi spent Rs 62 cr in 5 years on investors' education, awareness on F&O trade risks is: 
 Sebi spent Rs 62 cr in 5 years on investors' education, awareness on F&O trade risks Capital markets regulator Sebi has spent a little over Rs 62 crore in the last five years for investors' education activities, including for awareness of risks and volatility in the Futures & Options (F&O) segment, Parliament was informed on Tuesday.During FY 2023-24, Sebi spent Rs 2.73 crore from its Investor Protection and Education Fund (IPEF), Rs 11.93 crore in FY23, Rs 6.81 crore in FY22, Rs 28.84 crore in FY21 and Rs 11.84 crore in FY20, Minister of State for Finance Pankaj Chaudhary said in a written reply to the Rajya Sabha.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn a query on the steps undertaken by the government to increase awareness and regulate volatility in the F&O segment, Chaudhary said that Sebi, along with other Market Infrastructure Institutions (MIIs), undertakes various investor awareness programmes on an ongoing basis, to increase awareness with respect to the risks and volatility associated with the F&O segment, for the potential investors.Some of the key measures taken by Sebi are statutory warnings shown on broker trading screens with respect to the risk of probable losses that an investor could suffer while trading in the F&O segment and dissemination of several investor awareness videos, created by stock exchanges, on different social media platforms in a bid to make investors aware of the risks associated with trading in the F&O contracts."As a part of the account opening process, with a trading member, clients are required to mandatorily sign a Risk Disclosure Document (RDD) that contains information with respect to various types of risks which clients may face while trading in the F&O segment, including volatility risks, liquidity risks, and systemic risks," the minister said.
 
The news published on the date July 30, 2024 04:56 PM IST with headline  US: Democrats and Republicans share a delusion about productivity and wages is: 
 US wage Progressive Democrats and “national conservative” Republicans are increasingly aligned on the failure of American late-stage capitalism. Real wages have been stagnant for decades, they say, even as productivity keeps going up. Economic growth is channeling bigger profits to owners of capital while failing to raise living standards for ordinary families. They don’t always agree on what to blame for this dysfunction – how much is due to free trade, say, as opposed to labour-saving technology, monopoly power or the unbounded greed of the capitalist class – but they no longer quarrel much about the disease.This is a problem, and not only because the claims about wages, growth and how they relate to each other are wrong. That’s the least of it. The new consensus draws attention away from issues that actually need addressing. Worse, it suggests treatments that will cause the very sickness they’re meant to cure.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe core of the anti-neoliberal consensus is the apparently yawning gap between growth in pay and rising productivity. No matter how often this supposed decades-long divergence has been debunked, the rebuttals keep bouncing off. The story of capitalist exploitation is just too compelling.Back in 2015 Harvard’s Robert Z. Lawrence explained that the apparent gap between wages and productivity after 1970 mostly disappears once you measure things consistently – meaning, once you compare wages and productivity for the same workers; add non-wage compensation (such as health insurance and employer-paid payroll tax) to earnings; deflate nominal wages using producer prices not consumer prices (so that real wages are measured against the prices of the goods workers actually make); and deduct depreciation from gross production (since output that merely replaces worn-out structures and equipment isn’t available for other uses). The resulting metrics of net output per hour (“productivity”) and real product compensation (“wages”) rise more or less in tandem.Lawrence noted ten years ago that a smaller gap did seem to emerge after 2000, and he set about explaining it. (Most likely, too little investment, he thought.) But a new study by the American Enterprise Institute’s Scott Winship finds that this later gap has faded away. One of Winship’s various like-with-like comparisons is especially striking, because it uses data that go back to 1929. Between then and 2022, net value added in the non-farm business sector grew by a factor of 23; over the same period, workers’ compensation in the same sector grew by a factor of 23. Drawing on this and other such results, he reasonably concludes, “Overall growth in worker compensation has kept pace with overall productivity growth.”
 
The news published on the date August 02, 2024 01:19 PM IST with headline  Funding gap a major challenge for India’s biotechnology sector is: 
 Liquid funds offer very high liquidity. By Dr Jogin DesaiIndia is undeniably one of the top 12 biotechnology destinations globally and ranks as the third largest in the Asia-Pacific region. The nation’s bioeconomy, valued at over $92 billion in 2022, is poised for explosive growth, with projections reaching $150 billion by 2025 and a staggering $300 billion by 2030.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOur country is a major supplier of low-cost drugs and vaccines worldwide and leads in the biosimilar sector, boasting the highest number of approved biosimilars in the domestic market. Still, the pertinent question remains: What hinders India from becoming a top-tier biotechnology innovation destination? One obvious answer stares us in the face: The lack of a robust private biotech funding system similar to one that exists on the technology side.At present, BIRAC, established by the Department of Biotechnology (DBT), and incubators such as the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Platforms (CCAMP) offer infrastructure and funding support for early-stage biotech startups. The early success of these initiatives has brought hope for biotech companies like us, empowering us to turn ideas into products that address critical healthcare challenges in today’s world. A renewed focus on setting up biomanufacturing hubs to create core competence in drug product manufacturing is also in the works and will plug a much-needed gap for the country.However, our ecosystem lacks a steady flow of venture capital. If we want to realise the economic potential of the biotech ecosystem, we need to recognise that there is a significant need and opportunity for private capital investments.
 
The news published on the date July 29, 2024 09:36 AM IST with headline  MeitY worried about the Big Tech 'making people vulnerable', flags spike in data usage is: 
 Big Tech draws fire in government's presentation The government is worried about the impact of Big Tech and the increase in data usage in "making people vulnerable" by revealing "patterns, trends and associations", an internal presentation of the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) has said.The government also indicated that when it comes to Big Tech and the related increase in data usage, it is also concerned about citizens' growing digital footprint and the spike in the need for computational power.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe presentation, on the larger theme of the Digital Personal Data Protection Act, was made to stakeholders in June after the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance government was sworn in for a third successive term earlier in the month. Moneycontrol has reviewed a copy of the presentation.The government over the past couple of years has pulled up Big Tech for non-compliance with IT rules, blocking orders and more. It plans to bring in several regulations such as the draft digital competition bill, which will have a bearing on Big Tech.Google, Uber, Alibaba, Airbnb, Facebook and Amazon were among the tech giants identified in the presentation. This particular deck, on big data and data privacy came as a measure to set the context on why there is a need for the DPDP Act.
 
The news published on the date July 29, 2024 08:35 AM IST with headline  The Eastern Window: Time for India to change its policy towards Chinese investment? is: 
 An important question is whether India’s desire for Chinese investments is driven purely by economic reasons, unmindful of the political and military aspects of India-China relations HighlightsThe government is getting ready to attract Chinese funds after discouraging it for four years.Rules restricting Chinese imports have proved to be futile.The Economic Survey has argued that Chinese investments would enable India to tap export markets in Western countries.Has the government considered the political and military implications of such a move?Four years after the launch of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan in May 2020, the government has indicated it is ready to accept larger doses of Foreig
 
The news published on the date July 29, 2024 07:55 AM IST with headline  Finance Minister hits out at Congress govt in Karnataka for high inflation, poor law and order is: 
 Finance Minister hits out at Congress govt in Karnataka for high inflation, poor law and order Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday said that high inflation and poor law and order in Karnataka are the contributions of the Congress government.Responding to Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah’s statement that injustice was meted out to the state by the Centre, Sitharaman said the state’s economy worsened mainly due to the hike in prices of fuel, milk and stamp duty as well as poor capital expenditure.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“The contribution of the state government is high inflation, much higher than the national average. And how I am saying that? Inflation between June 2023 and June 2024 the national average was 5.4 per cent. Karnataka is at 6.1 per cent,” Sitharaman, who is a Rajya Sabha member from Karnataka, told reporters here.Drawing a contrast between the BJP’s rule in the state and present Congress dispensation, the Minister said between June 2022 and May 2023, Karnataka's inflation was lower than the national average.While, national average from June 2022 to May 2023 was six per cent, Karnataka kept its inflation rate at 5.39 per cent, Sitharaman pointed out.
 
The news published on the date July 28, 2024 01:57 PM IST with headline  Not all residents leaving India require tax clearance certificates: FinMin is: 
 The Budget for 2024-25 introduced a few amendments for those planning to move abroad from India. The mandate to obtain tax clearances for residents leaving India is not for everyone, the finance ministry clarified on July 28."As per section 230 of the Income-tax Act, 1961, every person is not required to obtain a tax clearance certificate. Only in the case of certain persons, in respect of whom circumstances exist which make it necessary to obtain a tax clearance certificate will be required to obtain such certificate," the ministry said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Budget for 2024-25 introduced a few amendments for those planning to move abroad from India.The ministry added that only in certain cases would an individual need to obtain such a tax clearance:-Where the person is involved in serious financial irregularities and his presence is necessary in investigation of cases under the Income-tax Act or the Wealth-tax Act and it is likely that a tax demand will be raised against him.
 
The news published on the date July 28, 2024 07:46 AM IST with headline  Focus on these 6 sectors post budget; pharma and IT could be dark horses is: 
 Budget 2024 By Mohit Khanna, Fund Manager at Purnartha One StrategyIn general, the market's expectation was that the government will use the RBI’s dividend payout for welfare activities. However, the Government chose to use almost the entire payout to reduce the fiscal deficit to 4.9 percent or by 70bps YoY. This is commendable, especially when this was the first Budget under a coalition government. The FM re-distributed the expenditure basket while maintaining the capital expenditure at Rs 11.11 lakh crore (as announced in the interim budget) and increasing the allocation to the rural sector. Further, the FM introduced a new policy for education and skilling – Employment Linked Incentives (ELI). So, we can see that the Government’s focus has shifted from PLI (production linked incentive) to ELI.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdLet me share 2 data points that was highlighted in the Economic Survey –1) India needs to create ~80 lakh jobs per year till 2036 at least2) Factories with 100+ workers have seen 13 percent workforce growth – implying that India's manufacturing is getting more organized.By introducing ELI, the government is looking to accelerate job creation in the formal sector. This should have a gradual but a strong positive impact on the economy over the next few years.Another aspect is that the Government’s spending was lower in the first quarter of the fiscal due to the general elections – plus we have another Budget in February 2025 i.e. only 6 months from now. This means that the yearly expenditure should now be done in less time. There can be two possible outcomes –1) Government meets its expenditure targets – proving a strong tailwind to multiple sectors2) Government spends less – beating fiscal deficit target – leading to lower inflation and possible lower interest rates by RBI under its Monetary Policy.
 
The news published on the date July 28, 2024 07:45 AM IST with headline  Budget 2024 – Sanctity of macro preserved without populism! is: 
 Budget 2024 By Hiren Ved, Director & Chief Investment Officer at Alchemy Capital ManagementAt first glance, the budget seemed populist, but it is not! Yes, there is a big push to try and fire up employment but incentivising the private sector to hire more and tackle the big challenge of unemployment given that we need to create 7-8 million new jobs annually. Think of it as a PLI (production linked incentive) for employment generation. How this will be operationalised on the ground is to be seen, but the intent is in the right direction.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe moot question in the minds of investors was – what the government will do with the additional Rs 1.4 lakh crore (Rs 1.4 trillion) of resources that it has due to higher RBI dividend and better tax collections? Will it be more populist, or will it increase the allocation for capex and fiscal consolidation? The Finance Minister’s decision to allocate nearly 70 percent of this surplus to reduce the fiscal deficit, and 30 percent to increased transfers to states, while maintaining capex at Rs 11 lakh crore, is prudent. This somewhat anticipated allocation of Rs 0.4 lakh crore to the two states - Bihar and Andhra, both very important allies in the NDA government - can also be construed as an infrastructure stimulus, as this amount will be spent on building infrastructure in these states including power, roads, irrigation, and education.By aggressively bringing down the fiscal deficit to 4.9 percent for FY25 and showing a glide path to 4.5 percent by FY26, is a signal to global rating agencies to upgrade India’s sovereign rating. This strategic move will help in bringing down the cost of capital in India on a long-term structural basis and bring down long term interest rates in the country.From a capital markets perspective, the increase in STCG (Short Term Capital Gains) and LTCG (Long Term Capital Gains) on listed equities was a slight dampener. But one can take comfort from the fact that this was part of a larger design to simplify the capital gains tax on all asset classes – equites both listed and unlisted, debt, gold and real estate. The capital markets will take this in its stride, as it always has, and investors will move on. Given that there was an overwhelming feeling that some regulatory and tax interventions would be taken to curb the excessive speculative fervour in the Futures and Options market, the increase in STT (Securities Transaction Tax) is welcome. There could be more follow up measures like increasing lot sizes and rationalising the expiry days, but once that is done the hanging sword on regulatory interventions would be out of the way, in our view.
 
The news published on the date July 27, 2024 10:44 AM IST with headline  Flavour of department has changed from enforcement to taxpayer centric: CBDT chairman is: 
 Department becoming more taxpayer centric The central board of direct taxes has become more focused on the taxpayer rather than enforcement, said Ravi Agrawal, CBDT chairman, at the Confederation of Indian Industry session on July 26.“The flavour of the department has changed from being an enforcement department to a taxpayer-centric department," Agrawal noted, highlighting that the Union Budget was a step forward.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAgrawal also pointed to an increasing focus on digitalisation and resolution.“Multiple litigations were not leading us anywhere, the procedures have been standardised. We have come up with Vivad se vishwas scheme, keeping in view that last VSVS was successful,” the CBDT chairman said at the CII session.The chairman also noted that the new capital gains tax regime is expected to benefit in most cases.
 
The news published on the date July 27, 2024 06:59 AM IST with headline  Bank of Maharashtra may meet 25% MPS norm in FY25: DFS Secy is: 
 The government holds 86.46 percent stake in Bank of Maharashtra. The government may look at reducing its stake in the Bank of Maharashtra (BoM) in FY25 to comply with Minimum Public Shareholding (MPS) regulations, while the remaining four public sector banks will not be able to meet the norm in current fiscal, Department of Financial Services (DFS) Secretary Vivek Joshi said.The government holds 86.46 percent stake in Bank of Maharashtra.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdApart from Bank of Maharasthra, the government's stake in Punjab & Sind Bank stands at 98.25 percent, followed by Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) with 96.38 percent, UCO Bank at 95.39 percent and Central Bank of India with 93.08 percent.“BoM can work towards meeting MPS, and we can aim to reduce the gap in other banks as well. However, it is unlikely that all banks will meet the MPS requirements in the current year as the gap in MPS among public sector banks (PSBs) is substantial, with figures as high as 97-98 percent for some,” Joshi told Moneycontrol in an interview.The exemption to meet the minimum public shareholding for public sector undertakings, including public lenders, ends in August.
 
The news published on the date July 27, 2024 08:08 AM IST with headline  Govt asks public insurers to move out of motor, health insurance to reduce losses: DFS Secy is: 
 Financial Services Secretary Vivek Joshi The Union government has asked the public sector insurance companies, who are struggling to improve their solvency ratio and profits, to come out of motor and health insurance segments, which have been identified as significant loss-making areas. This directive comes as part of a broader strategy to enhance the financial health and operational efficiency of these insurers, Department of Financial Services Secretary Vivek Joshi said."We are nudging them not to focus on toplines. Earlier they used to take business to show growth. Now we are asking them to come out of loss-making segments like motor and health insurance," Joshi told Moneycontrol in an interview. The move is aimed at reducing the burden of unlimited liability claims associated with motor insurance and high claim ratios in health insurance.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe three major public sector insurers – United India Insurance Company (UIIC), National Insurance Company Limited (NICL), and Oriental Insurance Company Limited (OICL) – received a combined capital infusion of Rs 17,500 crore in two phases, with Rs 9,950 crore injected in FY 2019-20 and Rs 7,500 crore in FY 2020-21.The government’s directive to move away from motor and health insurance is part of a strategy to steer these companies towards more profitable and manageable segments. Motor insurance, in particular, has been problematic due to the unlimited liability associated with accident claims, unlike aviation and railway insurance, which have caps on claims.Against expectations, the Union Budget did not announce any fresh capital infusion for the public insurers. The performance of these public sector insurers will be reviewed in FY25 to plan any further capital infusion, he said.
 
The news published on the date July 26, 2024 06:21 PM IST with headline  India has high tax-to-GDP ratio given its per capita income: Revenue secretary is: 
 The World Bank notes that a tax-to-GDP ratio of over 15 percent is a key ingredient for economic growth. India may have a lower tax base, but its tax-to-GDP is much higher compared to its peers, Sanjay Malhotra, secretary, department of revenue, ministry of finance, said at a Confederation of Indian Industry session on July 26.“The tax-to-GDP, given the level of development, is not low. We are slightly above what our per capita income indicates,” the secretary noted.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMalhotra further highlighted that the tax base would increase as more formalisation takes root.The World Bank notes that a tax-to-GDP ratio of over 15 percent is a key ingredient for economic growth. India’s general government tax-to-GDP ratio of 18 percent, is lower than China’s at 21 percent and US’ 25 percent.“More people will find it difficult to stay out of tax base and tax net,” he pointed out.
 
The news published on the date July 26, 2024 10:17 AM IST with headline  Judgement that will alter both federal and mineral tax landscape is: 
 States have the legislative power to tax mineral rights. (Representative image) By Gopal Mundhra The nine-judge Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court of India, with a decisive 8:1 majority, has ruled on the contentious issue of mineral taxation, overturning previous judgments and clarifying the balance of power between the Union and the States.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe majority verdict declared that royalty on minerals is not a tax but a contractual consideration, and consequently States have the legislative power to tax mineral rights and mineral-bearing lands over and above the collection of royalty under Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act 1957 (MMDR Act).States get a say on mineral taxationThe judgment significantly bolsters the States' authority in mineral taxation. It affirms that States can use mineral yield or value as a measure to tax mineral rights and mineral-bearing lands, and that the MMDR Act does not impose limitations on the States' taxing powers. The only dissenting judge, Justice Nagarathna, held that royalty is indeed a tax and warned that allowing States to levy additional taxes on minerals could lead to a lack of uniformity and unhealthy competition.
 
The news published on the date July 26, 2024 08:35 AM IST with headline  Decoding Economics: IMF paper maps India’s distance from productivity frontier is: 
 - In her budget speech, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the government will prepare an Economic Policy Framework to usher in "next generation reforms’’. She said, ‘’ These reforms will cover all factors of production, namely land, labour, capital and entrepreneurship, and technology as an enabler of improving total factor productivity and bridging inequality.’’ Perhaps the policy framework makers could get ideas about what is needed from an IMF working paper published this month titled ‘
 
The news published on the date July 26, 2024 08:14 AM IST with headline  Chart of the Day: Credit guarantees, forbearance have fuelled MSME credit is: 
 Small business need a credit fillip to become big Credit to micro, small and medium enterprises was constrained before the pandemic hit in FY21 and most banks refrained from lending to them given the increase in stress among small businesses. This changed dramatically after the pandemic as Covid-19 necessitated special dispensations from the banking regulator and the government to support businesses under distress. The emergency credit line guarantee scheme (ECLGS), announced in the Union Budget of 2022-23 assisted in collateral-free loans to small businesses. More importantly
 
The news published on the date July 26, 2024 07:56 AM IST with headline  We need long-term budgeting to tackle climate change is: 
 - Climate change has finally become part of the mainstream of political discourse, if the Union finance minister’s Budget speech is anything to go by.For starters, the Finance Minister mentioned the term “climate change” at least seven times in her speech, not counting tangential references. This may not sound like much but considering the fact that the term “Viksit Bharat” (developed India) – which was underlined as the theme of the Budget – was mentioned only four times
 
The news published on the date July 26, 2024 07:55 AM IST with headline  CBDT consolidates review process with single order covering six assessment years is: 
 Time barring" refers to the deadline by which a tax authority must complete an assessment and issue a notice. In a significant move to simplify and expedite tax assessment procedures, the Finance Bill has proposed an amendment to the Income Tax Act for consolidation of the assessment process in cases involving multiple years. This will ease the burden on taxpayers and streamline the workflow.In a major relief to assessees who are probed for evasion of income tax, after the searches are carried out, the assessment for six years will be clubbed which will be completed within time-bound 12 months, following which a single demand notice will be issued, Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) Chairman Ravi Agarwal told Moneycontrol in an interview.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTill now, separate notices were issued at different times for every assessment year which stretched the proceedings to even up to 10 years."Initially, tax assessments in search cases could be opened for up to 10 years, leading to multiple notices being issued across different years. Each notice had a different time-barring date, which stretched the proceedings and created challenges for both taxpayers and tax officers," Agarwal said.Under the previous system, if a notice was issued in one year, it could potentially have implications extending into the next, with the final time-barring dates spreading over several years. "This resulted in a complex mesh of overlapping assessments, often leading to increased disputes and prolonged resolution times," he added.In direct tax terminology, "time barring" refers to the deadline by which a tax authority must complete an assessment and issue a notice to a taxpayer. If this deadline is not met, the assessment becomes "time-barred", meaning that the tax authority loses the legal right to assess additional taxes for that period.
 
The news published on the date July 25, 2024 08:42 PM IST with headline  Formal employment picks up in May; new subscribers to EPF, ESIC rise is: 
 Formal employment improves Formal employment picked up in May after a disappointing start to the year as new enrollments in the government’s social security schemes rose, according to data released on July 25.New subscriptions to the Employees’ Provident Fund scheme rose 5.8 percent in April compared with the previous month to 984,681, while subscriptions to the Employees’ State Insurance Scheme, which caters to relatively lower-paid employees, jumped 40 percent to 1.7 million, as per the report released by the ministry of statistics and programme implementation.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe rise in employment bodes well for the economy. Private survey data has been hinting at improving employment prospects in the first quarter, after a tepid growth in the previous year.The number of private employees joining the National Pension Scheme rose 108 percent to 21,299 from 10,250 during this period.
 
The news published on the date July 25, 2024 08:07 PM IST with headline  Black Money Act amendment to remove penalty on non-disclosure of foreign assets worth Rs 20 lakh is: 
 Black Money Act amendments in Section 42 and 43 will be a part of the Finance Bill. An amendment in the Black Money Act will give taxpayers relief from penalty in case they fail to disclose overseas assets worth Rs 20 lakh, Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) Chairman Ravi Agarwal said, adding that however the obligation to report the transanction is not done away with.The Black Money Act amendments in Section 42 and 43 will be a part of the Finance Bill.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBlack Money (Undisclosed Foreign Income and Assets) and Imposition of Tax Act, 2015 aims to curb black money, or undisclosed foreign assets and income and imposes tax and penalty on such income. Currently under the Act, even if the taxpayers fail to disclose a foreign asset worth Rs 5 lakh, they have to pay a Rs 10 lakh penalty on it.“At present if the taxpayer is holding any asset abroad, which is not declared in the income tax return then there is a penalty of Rs 10 lakh. An amendment in the Black Money Act is proposed that If the value of the overseas asset is up to Rs 20 lakh, and is not disclosed, there will be no penalty if it's a bonafide mistake on the part of the taxpayer,” Agarwal told Moneycontrol in an interview.However, it does not mean that the obligation to actually report a transaction has been done away with. It should not be interpreted that way. The penalty has been removed, does not mean that the obligation has also been removed, he added.
 
The news published on the date July 25, 2024 07:34 PM IST with headline  IN-SPACe invites industry to build and manage satellite system under PPP model is: 
 Space regulator IN-SPACe floated an expression of interest in this regard on July 25 Space regulator the Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (IN-SPACe) is looking towards Indian private entities to build and manage a space-based Earth Observation (EO) system under a Public-Private Partnership (PPP) model.The body on July 25 released an Expression of Interest (EOI) inviting proposals from Indian entities.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe opening of doors for Indian entities to develop this project which involves the design, build, and launch of a constellation of satellites equipped with advanced imaging technologies is a major leap in boosting EO-based space economy in the country.The proposal encompasses non-governmental entities (NGE) (a term reserved in the space sector for private entities) to design, build, and establish constellation of satellites in Low Earth Orbit having a combination of sensors including panchromatic, multispectral, hyperspectral and microwave.It will also involve NGEs launching the satellites through Indian satellite launch vehicles, monitoring and controlling the spacecraft health, and payload data download by establishing and operating their own ground stations or through Ground Stations as a Service (GSaaS) providers.
 
The news published on the date July 25, 2024 06:16 PM IST with headline  Labour and skill ministries' spend to double from previous decade is: 
 Govt to spend a lot more on jobs and skills The labour and skill development ministries of the government will spend nearly double of what they disbursed in the last decade over the next five years, according to a Moneycontrol analysis of Budget documents.While the ministries had spent Rs 1.03 lakh crore between FY16 and FY24, the Budget lays down a roadmap of spending Rs 2 lakh crore over the next five years.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA major boost is expected to go towards skill development, where spending over the next half a decade is expected to 5.2 times higher than what was spent between FY16 and FY24. On the other hand, labour ministry’s scheme spending will be 1.2 times higher.
 
The news published on the date July 25, 2024 04:51 PM IST with headline  As many as 4.6 crore income tax returns filed so far in AY2024-25: CBDT Chairman is: 
 Budget- Income tax- 2024 As many as 4.6 crore Income Tax return have been filed so far and the income tax department is in discussion with the technological vendors to ensure capacity to handle large volumes as the last date of July 31 nears.“We are aware of the glitches on the income tax portal. We are talking to our vendors to ensure that the portal is able to handle the additional volumes of return filing,” Central Board of Direct Taxes Chairman Ravi Agarwal told Moneycontrol in an interview.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe portal was able to handle 2.2 lakh return filings in the peak hour on July 25, he said.In the 4.6 crore returns filed, two-thirds have been filed under the new tax regime.The government is hoping that its “nudge towards the new tax regime” by offering relief attracts more taxpayers to move to the regime, he said. The CBDT will also now begin an overhaul of the Income Tax Act, which will aim at simplifying the tax laws. The review will be done over the next six months, and the Bill may be introduced in the next Union Budget in February, Agarwal said.
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 08:18 PM IST with headline  Data Innovation Lab announced by ministry of statistics and programme implementation to improve stats quality is: 
 Data innovation lab by MoSPI ot become operational Paving the way for more collaboration to enhance its statistical and technological capabilities, the Ministry of Statistics and program implementation on July 23 notified the guidelines for its data innovation lab.The ministry also announced the formation of a selection committee that shall gather proposals from researchers to develop methodologies that can help improve the quality of the national statistical system and the creation of beta statistics, which rely on innovative ideas to develop databases and find new ways for data collection.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“Objective of Data Innovation Lab is to promote innovation, adoption of Information Technology in the field of official statistics, including survey-related methodology and address the challenges being faced by the National Statistical System (NSS),” the ministry noted.The governing council, which consists of the secretary of the ministry as chairperson will also decide on the framework for the innovation lab.“The functions related to the formation of DI Lab like the creation of sandboxing environment/availability of Hardware and software etc. may be facilitated through appropriate partners/outsourcing,” the guidelines highlighted.
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 07:14 PM IST with headline  GST buoyancy expected to decline, but will stay above one, says CBIC Chairman is: 
 GST buoyancy to decline but stay above 1 Tax buoyancy from Goods and Services Tax is expected to come down in the coming years, but will stay above one, said Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, Chairman, Central Board of Indirect Taxes & Customs (CBIC), in a post-Budget interaction with Moneycontrol.“The compliance levels are going up, tax buoyancy cannot remain that high,” Agarwal noted.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe ministry has set a target of increasing GST collections by 11 percent in FY25, against a GDP growth of 10.5 percent.Growth in GST collections had declined to a three-year low of 7.7 percent in June, compared to 10 percent in the previous month.“GST, after seven years, has fairly stabilised and that is reflected in the revenue that is coming from it,” Agarwal said.
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 09:45 PM IST with headline  12.5% LTCG is low compared to global standards, says Finance Secretary Somanathan is: 
 12.5% LTCG is low compared to global standards, says Finance Secretary Somanathan The Union Budget 2024-25 sent the markets into a tizzy with its announcements on long-term capital gains tax. However, the budget has been hailed for its fiscal prudence, focus on employment for the youth, and closing the gap in skills in the workforce. Moneycontrol spoke to the chief architects of the budget, Finance Secretary T.V. Somanathan and DIPAM Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey, about the rationale behind their decisions and the likely impact of the budget measures on the economy over the next few months. Edited excerpts:Shweta Punj: The budget assumes nominal GDP growth of 10.5 percent for FY25. However, inflation continues to be a concern. So, what is the real GDP that you are expecting? Are you expecting it to be somewhere around 7 percent?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdT. V. Somanathan: For the purpose of budget making, we don’t need to estimate real growth. We only need to estimate nominal growth. I am just being very practical. I am confident the nominal growth is unlikely to be below 10.5 percent. So that’s how we fixed our estimates on the basis of 10.5 percent, because if you have real growth of 6.5 percent and inflation of 4 percent, you are at 10.5 percent. If you have real growth of 7 percent, inflation of 3.5 percent, you are at 10.5 percent. I think the likely numbers will be in this range. Growth between 6.5 percent and 7 percent, and inflation here is a combination of CPI and WPI, is likely to be in the range of 3.5 percent to 4 percent. So that combination of numbers means 10.5 percent is probably the best number for us to pick.Punj: There is a sense that this time around, maybe you could have gone easier on the fiscal prudence bit and maybe spent a little bit more because allocations across a lot of your flagship schemes haven’t really gone up substantially. What’s the thought process?Somanathan: But you need to look at the actuals of the previous year and see what the spending capacity on those schemes is. So it’s not as if we have not provided for any of the schemes. We have provided what the scheme can absorb, and many of them are centrally sponsored schemes with implementations done by states that require states to actually do the last mile. And the flow of funds depends crucially on their ability to execute that last mile.
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 06:29 PM IST with headline  Budget nudges growth in the immediate term, opens pathways for new reforms   is: 
 The macroeconomic impact of budgetary announcements is positive in the short term. The first budget in the third term of the newly elected Narendra Modi government called for some reshaping of its policy path, as it looked forward to the next five fiscals and at the Viksit Bharat 2047 goals. The fact that another budget looms seven months from now provides a chance for course correction, just in case. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSo, the opportunity was to set the ball rolling on new policy pitches that take cognisance of new areas that may require support to ensure resilient, sustainable and more equitable growth. Put another way, there is time to prepare and test the waters. Against this backdrop, let’s take stock of what the full Union Budget for 2025 does.
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 06:22 PM IST with headline  For key infrastructure sectors, the Union Budget 2024 is par for the course is: 
 The Centre wants to undertake infrastructure development with states in tow. The full Union Budget for this fiscal was business as usual on the infrastructure front, sending a subtle message that the private sector should step up investments in the infrastructure buildout, while the government takes a pause.While this could be the intended outcome, there was no definite call-out in the budget.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFurther, surprisingly, there was little to no mention on monetisation of infrastructure assets, which has gained traction in recent years.The overall budget outlay was unchanged, at Rs 11.11 lakh crore, for fiscal 2025.The Centre wants to undertake infrastructure development with states in tow. It gave significant attention to cities to tackle the rapid urbanisation across the country.
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 05:51 PM IST with headline  Finally, getting down to the brass tacks in a budget is: 
 budget The Economic Survey tabled in Parliament on the eve of the Budget presentation, offers an unexpected narrative of the Indian economy. It is a sobering document much in tune with the situation we find ourselves at this juncture. It needs to be read carefully, for its messaging is, I come with a critique and not to praise it. The Chief Economic Advisor deserves kudos for that. Naturally there are obligatory statements about India shining, even as the global economy remains subdued. And indeed at the macro level, we have done well with high real GDP growth and a macroeconomy that is approaching $4 trillion.On understanding complexitiesStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFor a Survey of its breadth and depth, there are many things one can pick on, but none as quickly as the courageous statement that suggests that ‘few people outside government (living or dead) can understand the complexity of governance in India’ The complexities relate to economic, cultural, geographic, regional and others. Arguably, even within government the understanding of this complexity could be rare. For if such complexities were understood in their entirety, the government would eschew the temptation of making palpably unattainable promises and policy makers would push back against such targets.I am speaking of doubling farmer’s income in five years, increasing employment by 20 million and achieving $2 trillion worth of exports to name just a few. These are obviously political statements and acumen would demand they be appreciated as such. To however, mask the weaknesses of the economy, whether these are structural or cyclical, internal or external, self-inflicted or circumstantial and attribute the challenger’s narrative to a lack of understanding is disingenuous at best and an attempt to divert at worst. It is also unkind to the intelligence of academics, sociologists and economists, historians and demographers among others who spend their time engaging in deep and meaningful research of India and its peoples.The Cambridge economist Joan Robinson who visited India for only a few days but worked on the Indian economy for several years had famously said that whatever you say about India at a point in time, the exact opposite is also true at the same point in time. Many people within and outside government have quoted Joan Robinson no doubt because they agree with that assessment.
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 05:12 PM IST with headline  Govt employee count rises for first time since FY19, spending per head also on the up is: 
 Employee strength rises for first time post 2019 The Centre reversed a five-year downsizing trend in FY24, expanding its workforce to 3.56 million, a Moneycontrol analysis of Budget documents shows.The number of employees working for the Union government fell to its lowest in nearly a decade at 3.17 million in FY23, capping a consistent drop since FY19, when staff strength was at 3.27 million.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe employee numbers hit a peak of 3.33 million in FY14, Budget documents show.A look at the numbers provided in Budget documents also shows that the senior-to-junior employee ratio may have also worsened during these years.
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 04:21 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | No country for Indian traders is: 
 While big and small traders are complaining about the tax hikes, the investor community and government authorities are welcoming the move. Dear Reader,The day after the Budget, the primary topic of conversation is the increase in taxes on all aspects of trading and investing. While big and small traders are complaining about the tax hikes, the investor community and government authorities are welcoming the move.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn her Budget, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman raised long-term capital gains (LTCG) tax on financial and non-financial assets from 10 percent to 12.5 percent. Short-term capital gains (STCG) will now be taxed at 20 percent, up from the previous 15 percent.The finance minister increased the Securities Transaction Tax (STT) from 0.02 percent to 0.1 percent, a fivefold increase in F&O trades.Investors and government authorities believe the tax increases are modest, with potential for further hikes. The rise in LTCG from 10 percent to 12.5 percent is minimal and affects only a small portion of participants, as only one percent of traders in India pay LTCG. Most of those affected are in the HNI segment, meaning the impact on retail traders will be negligible.
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 04:15 PM IST with headline  Rupee falls 1 paisa to revisit all-time low of 83.70 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee falls 1 paisa to revisit all-time low of 83.70 against US dollar The rupee depreciated 1 paisa to revisit its all-time closing low of 83.70 (provisional) against the US dollar on Wednesday, weighed down by a strong dollar against major crosses overseas amid investors' weak appetite for riskier assets.Forex traders said the increase in capital gains tax and removal of indexation benefits announced in the FY25 Budget on Tuesday was the main reason for dollar buying as foreign investors sold stocks.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 83.69 and touched an intra-day high of 83.68 and a low of 83.72 against the dollar during the session.It finally settled at an all-time low level of 83.70 (provisional) against the American currency, registering a fall of 1 paisa from its previous close.On Tuesday, the rupee declined 3 paise to 83.69 against the US dollar after the government raised tax rates on capital gains in the FY25 Budget.
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 04:19 PM IST with headline  Budget signals shift in infra strategy as govt pushes states, private sector to pitch in is: 
 India has earmarked Rs 11.1 lakh crore for capex in Budget 2024-25, representing 3.4 percent of GDP. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced that the capex budget for 2024-25 would be Rs 11.1 lakh crore, or 3.4 percent of GDP, maintaining it at the same levels as announced in the interim budget. Despite the seemingly substantial allocation, infrastructure expert Vinayak Chatterjee notes the government’s shift towards decentralizing infrastructure investment, emphasizing a bottom-up approach to spur economic growth.In her budget speech on July 24, the FM identified infrastructure as a top priority, highlighting its strong multiplier effect on the economy. She emphasized on the Central Government’s significant investments in the past and committed to maintaining robust fiscal support for infrastructure over the next five years, balancing this with other priorities and fiscal consolidation.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“This budget marks a strategic shift in mindset of how microeconomic policy is panning out. From 2014 till last year, the governing mantra was that large infrastructure and public works outlays were pump-priming the economy and GDP. To that extent, we saw a consistent government policy over the years of increasing the budget allocation significantly, increasing by 25 percent-30 percent in the last few years. Investment in infrastructure was touted to have the highest multiplier effect and was creating assets for the nation. Now we find a significant underplaying of the infrastructure sector where we have just got 11.1 percent increase,” Vinayak Chatterjee, Chairman, CII infrastructure council and founder and managing trustee The Infravision Foundation, told Moneycontrol in an interview.The Economic Survey 2023-24, which was tabled on July 22, was a precursor to this change in stance, he said. The survey called upon the private sector to create jobs and scale up investments and the need to minimise the role the government plays.No Big Bang Infra Announcements
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 09:39 PM IST with headline  Economists laud Budget’s fiscal prudence, say opens path to ratings upgrade is: 
 The budget kept the capex allocation unchanged at Rs 11.11 lakh crore, 16.9 percent higher than the previous year’s spend. The Union Budget has done well to keep to the fiscal consolidation roadmap while taking measures to boost consumption, economists said in their post-budget reaction, further noting that the steps are likely to help with fiscal consolidation.“Considering the Indian economy has been in a sweet spot lately, we believe pursuing counter-cyclical fiscal policy should help strengthen India's macroeconomic stability and create a foundation for strong medium-term growth,” said Tanvee Gupta Jain, UBS economist.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdJain further noted that this raised the possibility of a rating upgrade by one of the three ratings agencies within the next 18-24 months.The finance minister lowered the fiscal deficit target to 4.9 percent for FY25 compared with 5.1 percent in the interim budget.“From 2026-27 onwards, our endeavour will be to keep the fiscal deficit each year such that the Central Government debt will be on a declining path as a percentage of GDP,” the FM further noted.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 08:45 PM IST with headline  A credible math makes for a convincing fiscal consolidation in the Union Budget is: 
 The Budget math sends out the signal that the government is committed to fiscal consolidation while maintaining growth Highlights - Quarterly performance largely backed by improved realisations - Medium-term triggers China plus and protectionist measures for tyre industry - Valuations not inexpensive; but improved medium-term outlook The fiscal deficit pegged at 4.9 percent of the GDP was one of the key highlights if not the major good news from the Union Budget. But fiscal deficit is just a ratio and the key lies in the credibility of the numbers in the numerator as well as the denominator.Turning to the denominator first, the nominal GDP growth of 10.5 percent is well within the forecast range of the experts – with the RBI expecting
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 08:32 PM IST with headline  FM builds on Economic Surveys data approach in Budget is: 
 Budget bats for data integration Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, in her Budget speech, built on the ground laid by the Economic Survey on integrating more datasets for decision-making.“For improving data governance, collection, processing, and management of data and statistics, different sectoral databases, including those established under the Digital India mission, will be utilised with active use of technology tools,” the finance minister said in the government’s maiden budget.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn another instance, the government in its big job push also talked about integrating the e-shram portal with other portals to provide a wide array of services.“Open architecture databases for the rapidly changing labour 19 market, skill requirements and available job roles, and a mechanism to connect job aspirants with potential employers and skill providers will be covered in these services,” she noted.The push is also evident in allocation to the Ministry of statistics and programme implementation, which witnessed over 20 percent increase in its budget for capacity development to Rs 531 crore from Rs 439 crore in the previous year.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 08:16 PM IST with headline  Amid push for Employment Linked Incentive schemes, PLI allocations double in FY25 is: 
 Auto PLI gets a boost Allocations to production-linked incentive (PLI) schemes rose to nearly Rs 12,500 crore in FY25 from just under Rs 7,000 crore spent in the previous fiscal, according to Budget 2024.The increase is led by the auto scheme, where the allocation jumped seven times to Rs 3,500 crore. Further analysis indicates a push for white goods PLI as well, with an outlay of Rs 298 crore from Rs 65 crore in the previous year.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdACC battery’s allocation has increased to Rs 250 crore from Rs 12 crore spent in FY24 revised estimates.While allocations across the schemes remained unchanged from the interim Budget, textiles witnessed a push with the government budgeting Rs 45 crore, instead of the Rs 5 crore given in the interim Budget.Earlier this month, the government had reopened applications for the white goods scheme.The scheme has witnessed Rs 6,962 crore commitments from manufacturers since inception.The finance minister in her budget also announced an employment-linked incentive scheme to push for job creation.“These will be based on enrolment in the EPFO, and focus on recognition of first-time employees, and support to employees and employers,” the FM had said.Story continues below AdvertisementThe Economic Survey released on the eve of the Budget talked about supplementing PLI efforts in job creation and talked about the need to create 7.9 million jobs annually until 2036
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 08:05 PM IST with headline  Budget's duty reduction on leather imports to boost demand is: 
 The cost reduction in leather is likely to be passed on to end-s as footwear companies. Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × The government has reduced the customs duty on wet white, crust, and finished leather used in the manufacture of leather/synthetic footwear from 10 percent to zero. Leather is a key raw material for footwear manufacturers such as Bata India and , which have significant leather-based offerings (formal and office wear shoes). Leather as a raw material is mostly imported and the duty reduction is likely to reduce input costs for these companies. We expect about 5 percent reduction in leather footwear prices, considering that raw material forms about half of the overall costs.The cost reduction is likely to be passed on to end-consumers as footwear companies are facing subdued SSSG (same store sales growth). Bata posted flattish sales in FY24, while Metro Brands sales growth has moderated to 10 percent YoY in the same period. Price reductions will boost demand and would be positive for these companies
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 07:39 PM IST with headline  Where is India’s capex going? is: 
 Defence corners significant proportion of capex push Although the finance minister kept the capital expenditure target unchanged from the interim Budget at Rs 11.11 lakh crore, it still marks a 16.9 percent increase from the previous year.This year’s allocation is Rs 1.6 lakh crore higher than last year's spend of Rs 9.5 lakh crore. A Moneycontrol analysis of 102 departments in the Budget shows that five departments cornered most of it.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFrom Rs 1.6 lakh crore, Rs 60,000 crore will go to the department of economic affairs as outlay for other general services, which will be assigned to respective ministries later, and another Rs 47,000 crore will be allocated to states.Of the over Rs 50,000-crore increase, defence, communications, railways, roads and police will account for over 90 percent of the spend.The defence budget is up 9.4 percent from the previous year, while telecom capex is 20.5 percent higher. Police services also got a capex push with a 32.8 percent increase in capital allocation.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 09:25 PM IST with headline  A Game-Changer Budget: Angel tax axed, MSMEs empowered is: 
 budget Budget 2024 packs a wide range of proposals that address many issues that the industry and the government have been discussing for a while. It is heartening to note that the Finance Minister has chosen to take up these for resolution in the first budget of the Modi 3.0 government. At the top of the list is the abolition of Angel Tax, which has been a major source of confusion for young start-ups relying on external capital. For a start-up to have to pay tax on the money the capital it raises from external investors was an anomaly. With the Angel tax now gone, it removes the uncertainty and will help start-ups and investors move ahead without this overhang.Another ask over the years has been for the reduction of LTCG on unlisted equities, which has been met with the tax rate moving down from 20% to 12.5%, albeit with the removal of indexation. Will be interesting to see whether this is a net positive or not for the investors in the startup ecosystem.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe government has reiterated its commitment to the digital economy by reducing the TDS that an e-commerce operator needs to deduct from the gross value of sales on the platform. This reduction from 1% to 0.1% aligns with the government's objective of following the money flow and also frees up the working capital of online sellers to invest in growth. Another encouraging news for the online economy is the government’s proposal for the public sector banks to use the digital footprint of MSMEs to assess their creditworthiness, moving away from external valuations. This is an insightful move to leverage the digital trail that online businesses provide and use that to benefit honest, tax-compliant online sellers.India’s sterling achievements in the space tech sector and its potential are anchored by the Rs 1000 Cr venture capital fund allocation for space tech development. The liberalisation of Indian space sector rules in June 2022 to allow private space companies to own and operate space assets has ignited a lot of growth in the sector. With support from government agencies, Indian space tech startups have demonstrated and validated their technologies successfully. The next phase is about commercialisation, including selling to global customers. Cliched as it will sound, the sky is indeed the limit here.MSMEs are the lifeblood of India and the budget has a host of measures to support their growth. Collateral-free loans, new guarantee scheme for MSMEs in the manufacturing segment, SIDBI branches in MSMEs clusters are a boost for this vital sector. Anything that strengthens their standing has a multiplier effect on employment, tax collections and in supporting other businesses and individuals that support this sector.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 07:25 PM IST with headline  Budget 2024: Privatisation of PSUs will happen but best time to be decided, says FM is: 
 FM on banks The privatisation of public sector undertakings (PSUs) is very much on the table and the government is committed to carry it out as these are the decisions of the Union Cabinet, though the timing for it will have to be decided, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on July 23.“Privatisation of PSUs, a cabinet decision, has to be honored. But timing has to be chosen by the government depending on what's the best time” Sitharaman said at a press briefing post the presentation of the Union Budget in the Parliament.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSitharaman said that the PSUs have been giving high dividends on account of good growth.The combined market cap of 81 listed PSUs, including banks and insurance companies, has grown by 225% in the last three years, on the back of higher government capex and better capital management, Sitharaman had said on May 8.Four public sector banks, including Canara Bank and Indian Bank, on July 10 gave dividends worth Rs 6,481 crore for financial year 2023-24.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 07:25 PM IST with headline  This pharma stock gets the Budget tonic is: 
 Budget has scrapped the basic customs duty on cancer drugs Trastuzumab Deruxtecan, Osimertinib, and Durvalumab In a key announcement, the Union Budget has scrapped the basic customs duty on cancer drugs Trastuzumab Deruxtecan, Osimertinib, and Durvalumab. The extant duty was 10 percent.One interesting beneficiary of this announcement is Astrazeneca Pharma India Ltd, which is owned by MNC AstraZeneca plc. These drugs are manufactured by Astrazeneca in the US/UK and are imported to India.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe company launched Trastuzumab Deruxtecan in India in January this year for the treatment of breast cancer. As recently as March, the company received an approval from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) to import for the sale and distribution of Trastuzumab Deruxtecan for two new indications.In its annual report, the company mentions that in the last financial year Durvalumab (Imfinzi) was adopted as a standard care for indicated patients with advanced Biliary Tract Cancer (BTC). The rapid adoption and growth of Imfinzi in BTC was the key driver for the overall growth of the brand in the FY24.While these are recent developments, Osimertinib (Tagrisso) is the company’s key offering for the treatment of lung cancer. Tagrisso is one of the Top Ten oncology brands in India as per IPSOS MAT Jun ’23 and continues to be the largest oncology brand by sales for AstraZeneca India.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 07:14 PM IST with headline  Budget 2024 message - Modi has heard voters, NDA 3.0 is on the ‘job’ is: 
 Jobs, or the lack thereof, was singled out by many as one of the reasons why the BJP lost ground to the Opposition on June 4. After the BJP found itself chastised by the voters in the recently concluded Lok Sabha election there was only one question that was left to be asked: Will Prime Minister Modi hear the voter’s message?The question has been significantly answered in the affirmative by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman while presenting her 7th consecutive budget – a new record surpassing the 6 consecutive budgets presented by Morarji Desai.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdJobs, or the lack thereof, was singled out by many as one of the reasons why the BJP lost ground to the Opposition on June 4. Today, the BJP led NDA has taken a major step in focusing on the employment challenge by rolling out an Employment Linked Incentive (ELI) scheme.Under this scheme, the government has allocated Rs 2 Lakh crore for the ELI scheme to create jobs over the next five years. The scheme includes a direct benefit transfer of one month’s salary in three installments, up to Rs 15,000, to first-time employees registered in the Employees Provident Fund Organsiation (EPFO).Importantly, the scheme will incentivize additional employment in the manufacturing sector linked to the employment of the first-time employees. The incentive will be paid out up to Rs 3,000 per month for two years towards their EPFO contribution for each additional employee. Not just offering employment, but this will also give a reason to employers to formalize jobs which is much needed.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 03:30 PM IST with headline  No major consumption boost in Budget, but Street remains optimistic is: 
 Consumption was a key area of interest for the Street as expectations, after the surprising election results, were that steps to support low-income consumers would be taken. However, the government has not strayed from its method of choice of spurring consumption, giving people the means to earn a better livelihood rather than give them handouts.The allocation in the for sectors such as rural development, health, food and fertilizer subsidy, social welfare have no
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 04:34 PM IST with headline  Ratio of defence capex spending climbs a decadal high in FY25, shows Budget data is: 
 Defence capex gets a push Defence capex spending scaled its highest level of Rs 1.72 lakh crore in FY25, shooting up 9.4 percent from the previous fiscal, according to Budget 2024 data.As a proportion of defence spending, capex was at the highest level of 27.7 percent in FY25, compared with 25.2 percent a year back.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe finance minister, in her first Budget of the third straight Narendra Modi government, kept the defence capex unchanged at Rs 1.72 lakh crore. It had jumped 10 percent in FY24 to Rs 1.57 lakh crore.The government has set an ambitious target to more than treble the defence production to Rs 3 lakh crore by FY29 and raise exports to Rs 50,000 crore.Defence production had declined by a third to around Rs 75,000 crore in the previous fiscal compared with Rs 1.09 lakh crore in the previous year. Defence exports had garnered Rs 21,000 crore in FY24.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 02:40 PM IST with headline  No increase for PM-Kisan in Budget 2024 is: 
 Union budget PM Kisan Contrary to expectations, the Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Modi 3.0's maiden budget on July 23 kept the per farmer payout under PM-KISAN scheme by unchanged at Rs 6,000.Overall outlay under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi programme was kept at Rs 60,000 crore allocation under the interim budget and just over Rs 58,000 crore in FY24.Story continues below AdvertisementOne of the first decisions of the prime minister after assuming office was to release the 17th installment of PM-KISAN worth Rs 20,000 crore.A key demand by industry associations and farmers organisations in the pre-budget meetings with the finance minister was to increase per farmer benefit under the programme.Agriculture growth was tepid at 1.4 percent in FY24 compared with 4.7 percent in the previous year, despite the economy expanding 8.2 percent in FY24.Consumption growth has also been muted at 4 percent.The government has been hoping for a better monsoon this year to provide a boost to rural economy. But economists contend the higher food inflation can play spoilsport.Food inflation galloped to 9.4 percent in June compared with 8.7 percent, according to data released on July 12
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 02:26 PM IST with headline  Rs 1,000-crore VC fund for space economy will give boost to entrepreneurs, pvt players: IN-SPACe chairman Pawan Goenka is: 
 Pawan K Goenka- IN-SPACe Space regulator Indian Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (IN-SPACe) Chairman Pawan K Goenka said that the government's plan of setting up a Rs 1,000-crore venture capital (VC) fund for the space economy would give a major boost to entrepreneurs and other private players in the ecosystem."The announcement of a focused venture fund of 1000 crores will give a major boost to new entrepreneurs and NGEs in the space sector. At IN-SPACe, we look forward to supporting the growth of the space economy and nurturing an enabling ecosystem for NGEs," Goenka said in a statement.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"The fund along with the existing policies for the space sector will fuel technological innovation and create a fertile ground for NGE's to thrive," Goenka added.Earlier in the day, while giving her Budget speech, Sitharaman said, "With our continued emphasis on expanding the space economy by 5 times in the next 10 years, a venture capital fund of Rs 1,000 crore will be set up."Space tech startups such as Pixxel and Agnikul Cosmos have also lauded the move.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 02:04 PM IST with headline  MGNREGA gets Rs 86,000 crore for FY25 is: 
 MGNREGA gets a substantial share Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on July 23 kept the allocation for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme unchanged at Rs 86,000 crore.The allocation stands 4 percent percent lower than the Rs 90,000-crore-plus that the government had spent on the job scheme last year. The MGNREGA allocation had crossed Rs 1 lakh crore during the pandemic year of FY21 and has since declined. In FY21, the spending was 80.8 percent higher than the initial budget allocation.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA Moneycontrol analysis had found that the government has outspent on the MGNREGA by 30 percent on average each year for the last decade.Between FY22 and FY24, the actual expenditure on the scheme exceeded the budgeted outlay by 34.2 percent on average, compared with 16 percent excess spending between FY16 and FY20.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 01:56 PM IST with headline  MGNREGA gets a higher outlay of Rs 86,000 crore in Budget 2024-25 is: 
 Budget 2024 Betting big on Bharat, the first full Budget of the third Narendra Modi government raised the allocation for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme for 2024-25 to match the revised estimate of RTs 86,000 crore for FY24.Initiated by the erstwhile Congress-led UPA government, MGNREGA has continued to be a significant part of India’s social security system. The scheme was allocated Rs 60,000 crore for FY24 and the revised estimate came in at Rs 86,000 crore.Story continues below AdvertisementThe scheme provides a legal guarantee for at least 100 days of wage employment to every rural household whose members do unskilled manual work
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 01:34 PM IST with headline  Budget keeps allocations for PM Kisan, Fasal Bima schemes unchanged despite focus on farm growth is: 
 Union budget PM Kisan Although the Union Budget for 2024-25 focused on the farm sector, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman skipped raising the allocations for the PM Kisan and Fasal Bima schemes.PM Kisan is a flagship scheme of the Narendra Modi government with quarterly cash transfers of Rs 6,000 a year.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe budgetary allocation for PM Kisan had remained unchanged in the Interim too, although estimates suggested that the allocation of Rs 60,000 crore would fall short for 11.8 crore beneficiaries.Another flagship scheme of the Modi government, Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, had an allocation of Rs 14,600 crore in the Interim Budget. It too remained unchanged in the full budget on July 23. Experts have said that the allocation is conservative to meet the demand.The Modi government had promised to double farm incomes at the start of his tenure.The Indian agriculture is defined by small land holdings, unequal growth across crops, heavy monsoon dependence, and low infrastructure investment. The share allocated to the Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare as a proportion of the total budgeted expenditure has gone down over the last four years - from 4.4 percent in 2020-21 to 2.56 percent in 2023-24
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 01:31 PM IST with headline  From credit support to more Mudra loans, Budget 2024 bats for MSMEs is: 
 Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman Budget 2024 turned its attention to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in a big way, as Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a slew of measures ranging from a credit guarantee scheme to higher limit for MUDRA loans for the sector."This Budget provides special attention to MSMEs and manufacturing,particularly labour-intensive manufacturing. We have formulated a package covering financing, regulatory changes and technology support for MSMEs to help them grow and also compete globally," Sitharaman said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHere is what the Budget has to offer to MSMEs :Credit guarantee scheme for MSMEs in manufacturing sectorTo facilitate term loans to MSMEs for purchase of machinery and equipment without collateral or third-party guarantee, the government plans to launch a credit guarantee scheme for MSMEs in the manufacturing sector.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 01:26 PM IST with headline  FM announces increase in monetary limit for filing tax litigation in tribunals, courts is: 
 Sitharaman proposed to increase monetary limits for filing appeals related to direct taxes, excise and service tax in the Tax Tribunals, High Courts and Supreme Court to Rs 60 lakh, Rs 2 crore and Rs 5 crore, respectively. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced an increase in the monetary limit for departments to file tax litigations in tribunal, high courts and the Supreme Court.As a result of the increase, the government cannot pursue tax litigation if the amount in dispute is below the monetary limit, Sitharaman said in her Budget speech on July 23.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdShe said "I propose to increase monetary limits for filing appeals related to direct taxes, excise and service tax in the Tax Tribunals, High Courts and Supreme Court to Rs 60 lakh, Rs 2 crore and Rs 5 crore, respectively." As a consequence of this, if the amount in dispute is less than that mentioned above, the department cannot file an appeal.This is a stark increase from the government's earlier policy with respect to direct tax litigation.Under the 2019 policy for direct tax litigation, appeals before the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) could not be filed if the disputed amount was less than Rs 50 lakh, and for appeals before high courts, it was enhanced to Rs 1 crore, while for special leave petitions (SLPs)/appeals before the Supreme Court, the limit was Rs 2 crore.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 03:22 PM IST with headline  MeitY receives 52% boost in 2024-25 Budget outlay at Rs 21,936 crore is: 
 MeitY received a more than 50 per cent increase in its estimate in this year's budget The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), which is responsible for key schemes in the electronics manufacturing and semiconductor ecosystem, has received a 52 percent hike in its estimate for 2024-25, with the Union Budget allocating Rs 21,936.90 crore for this.The revised estimate for MeitY in 2023-24 stood at Rs 14,421.25 crore. The increase in allocation is in line with the gradual increase in MeitY's budget over the years.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe majority of the increased allocation for MeitY is reflected in the expanded production-linked incentive (PLI) schemes for both semiconductors and large-scale electronics manufacturing and IT hardware.The estimate for the 'modified scheme for setting up of compound semiconductors/silicon photonics/sensors fab/discrete semiconductors fab and semiconductor assembly, testing, marking and packaging (ATMP)/outsourced semiconductor assembly and test (OSAT)facilities in India' was increased from Rs 1,428.84 crore in the revised estimate for 2023 - 2024, to Rs 4,203 crore in the Union Budget for 2024-25.The central government increased the estimate for the 'Modified Scheme for Setting up of Semiconductor Fabs in India' from Rs 12.51 crore in revised estimate for 2023-24 to Rs 1,500 crore this year.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 06:48 PM IST with headline  Understanding India from the Economic Survey 2023-24 is: 
 The Chief Economic Advisor, V Anantha Nageswaran, in his second Economic Survey 2023-24 presentation, steered clear of presenting overly optimistic forecasts for the Indian economy India’s economy has shown resilience amid a global slowdown, with the Economic Survey projecting a conservative growth outlook of 6.5-7 percent for FY25. While the survey calls upon the private sector to create jobs and boost investments, it also emphasises the need for the government to “let go” or more deregulation.The Chief Economic Advisor, V Anantha Nageswaran, in his second Economic Survey 2023-24 presentation, steered clear of presenting overly optimistic forecasts for the Indian economy. He used the survey as an opportunity to highlight the wins for India, including increasing participation of women in the workforce, reduced out-of-pocket expenses in healthcare, increased enrolment in schools, etc., even as he emphasised the need for building climate resilience, for the private sector to step up investment and to work to minimise the presence of the government.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHere are some highlights from the survey on India’s macro economy, capital expenditure, state finances, jobs, welfare, education and health.Macro economy-Steady growthIndia has remained on course to meet fiscal consolidation goals despite the global trend of widening fiscal deficit. India’s favourable fiscal performance in 2023 emerged as the cornerstone of India’s macroeconomic stability. The fiscal deficit of the Union Government is down from 6.4 percent of GDP in FY23 to 5.6 percent of GDP in FY24. Increased robustness in tax revenues plus higher than budgeted non-tax revenues in the form of dividends from RBI has buffeted revenue receipts. Sustained improvements in India’s fiscal metrics are beginning to have an impact on India’s credit ratings. For the first time in 13 years, S&P Global upgraded India’s credit rating outlook from stable to positive in May 2024.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 06:14 PM IST with headline  Agricultural sector likely to perform better in FY25: CEA is: 
 Provisional estimates for 2023-24 peg the agricultural growth rate at 1.4 per cent. The agricultural sector is expected to perform better after stagnant growth of 1.4 percent in Fy24 as estimated in the provisional estimates. This is likely despite the monsoon not performing as predicted by the (India Meteorological Department), the chief economic advisor V Anantha Nageswaran said on July 22.''Agriculture sector is expected to perform better in the coming year. Monsoon not performing as predicted by the IMD before the season began,'' Nageswaran said at the press conference after the Economic Survey was tabled in the Parliament by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Indian Meteorological Department had forecast that India is set to receive above-normal monsoon rains this year. The monsoon is, however, not progressing as the IMD predicted before the monsoon season began. The rainfall needs to be spatially distributed, else the agricultural yield is impacted, the CEA said.The farm sector has clocked an average annual growth rate of 4.18 per cent over the last five years, with provisional estimates for 2023-24 pegging the agri growth rate at 1.4 per cent.ALSO READ: For more details go to Economic Survey blog
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 06:03 PM IST with headline  No need to raise capital gains tax for now is: 
 A higher capital gains tax is a bigger worry in the long run than any political instability. The markets appear to be on pause mode for the last trading sessions after closing at record highs last Thursday (July 18), with the Nifty ending at 24,801 on that day. On Monday, the Nifty closed 21.60 points down at 24,509.30, though market width was positive.The markets appear to be waiting for Tuesday’s budget in the wake of persistent rumours that capital gains tax rates may be hiked. Long term capital gains (LTCG) tax in India is 10% and the short-term rate (STCG) 15%.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdNumerous market participants have said that a higher capital gains tax is a bigger worry in the long run than any political instability caused by the BJP’s tally in Parliament falling below the 270 mark.Intriguingly the Economic Survey released on Monday refers approvingly to a June 2024 IMF staff paper which recommends “well-designed excess corporate profit taxes and high personal income taxes on capital through better enforcement of automatic information exchange between countries and enhanced taxation of capital gain.”To be clear the IMF paper quoted in the survey is with reference to policy measures to mitigate inequality caused by possible large-scale displacement of labour resulting widespread adoption of AI. There is no direct correlation between its conclusions appearing in the Survey, and the possibility of higher capital gains tax in Tuesday’s budget which appear to be the stuff of Indian investors’ nightmare.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 07:30 PM IST with headline  Economic Survey in 10 charts: Stability, inclusivity central to 2047 Viksit Bharat vision is: 
 Economic Survey in 10 charts The Economic Survey 2023-24 took a more conservative stance in its projections than many international agencies, pinning GDP growth at 6.5-7 percent for FY25. It emphasised the need for more structural reforms to accelerate sustained growth to more than 7 percent. The survey suggested measures to contain inflation, highlighting that it is likely to be benign in the short run. Moneycontrol decodes the survey in 10 charts and excerpts from the survey:India’s economy, according to the survey, carried forward the momentum in FY24 despite several external challenges. It said growth could exceed 7 percent on a sustained basis if structural reforms continue.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAchieving long-term price stability requires a clear, forward-looking vision, the survey said. It's important to assess progress in developing modern storage and processing facilities for fruits and vegetables to check price volatility, it added.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 05:48 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Metal companies look East for relief is: 
 market Dear Reader,China took the markets by surprise, after it announced a series of measures aimed at providing a monetary stimulus. The one-year loan prime rate (LPR) was cut by 10 basis points to 3.35 percent and the 5-year LPR by 10 basis points to 3.85 percent. The People’s Bank of China also said it will cut the 7-day reverse repo rate by 10 basis points to 1.7 percent and improve the mechanism of open market operations, according to a Reuters report.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe report also mentioned that a report from the official China news agency Xinhua quoted sources close to the PBOC as saying “the cut showed its determination to bolster the recovery and it was in response to the plenum’s aims to achieve this year’s growth target”. We had written about the China’s Third Plenum, its importance and what it could seek to achieve. While the Plenum has concluded, the 60-point document released did not point to any major policy shift, reaffirmed policy goals but did not lay down implementation steps, according to this Reuters report seen on Moneycontrol.That’s why the monetary measures come as a surprise as they did not wait for the US Fed to start its easing cycle to follow suit. It opens up the possibility that when the Fed does start its cycle, China may take more measures then. If these measures are followed up with some fiscal measures as well, then the hope is that China’s economy climbs to a more robust level of growth.India’s metals industry will be keen awaiting a revival in China’s domestic economy. JSW Steel’s Q1 results reflect the scars of China’s surplus position in steel as its companies continue to churn out excess output despite the state of the economy. It has been exporting steel with the neighbouring countries being the main target. My colleague Lekha Badlani analysed JSW Steel’s performance in the June quarter, which showed that per tonne realisation, on a consolidated basis, fell by 5.1 percent YoY.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 06:04 PM IST with headline  Too much Instagram and fries could choke India's economic growth, says Economic Survey is: 
 This mix of unhealthy habits can undermine public health and productivity and diminish India’s economic potential, the Survey warned. India’s economic future is at risk from a public health crisis fuelled by unhealthy lifestyles, including sedentary habits, excessive screen time, and poor diets, the Economic Survey 2023-24 said.This mix of unhealthy habits can undermine public health and productivity and diminish India’s economic potential, the Survey warned. It criticized the private sector’s role in contributing to these.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHighlighting the health and commercial benefits of traditional Indian lifestyles, the survey advocated that businesses adopt and promote these practices globally to boost their market leadership and profitability.Economic Survey: CEA flags geopolitics, rise of AI as key challenges for Viksit Bharat and urges India Inc to step upIndia is home to one of the youngest populations in the world, having a median age of 28 years, according to the Survey. “India can harness its demographic dividend by nurturing a workforce that is equipped with employable skills and prepared for the needs of the industry,” the Survey read.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 05:30 PM IST with headline  FY25 GDP growth estimate at 6.5-7% is prudent, not pessimistic: CEA is: 
 Chief Economic Advisor V Anantha Nageswaran Despite the RBI estimating India’s GDP growth at 7.2 percent GDP growth in FY25 and other international agencies also revising their projection upwards, the Economic Survey has projected a conservative estimate of 6.5-7 percent in the current fiscal. With the global environment posing several challenges and monsoon not progressing the way predicted, the Chief Economic Advisor (CEA) V Anantha Nageswaran said that the Economic Survey was mindful of these risks and thus projects a ''doable'' growth estimate.''We are not pessimistic, we are optimistic about growth. But we are mindful of challenges, about the way the monsoon has progressed. Given that we feel 7 percent is doable, but yet we want to be not necessarily cautious but prudent'' Nageswaran said at a press conference after the tabling of the Economic Survey in the Parliament by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Indian Meteorological Department had forecast that India is set to receive above-normal monsoon rains this year. The monsoon is, however, not progressing as the IMD predicted before the monsoon season began, the CEA said.''We were more confident of 7 percent GDP growth when we wrote the interim economic survey in January. Since then the global environment has become even more polarised. We would rather be pleasantly surprised than be forced to face disappointment which is why we are projecting a GDP growth rate of 6.5-7 percent,'' he added.The growth estimated by the Survey, released a day before Sitharaman presents the Budget for the ongoing financial year, is in line with the International Monetary Fund’s estimate of 7 percent.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 05:16 PM IST with headline  Why a populist Budget won’t be bad, after all is: 
 Union Budget By Divam Sharma, Founder and Fund Manager at Green PortfolioPopulist budgets don’t necessarily need to be bad, nor do they need to please everyone. The budget back in February was nothing close to being populist, but now we might see some populist measures as the government tries to gain public confidence and support.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdLet’s look at things from a couple of different perspectives. First off, consumption. A populist budget can really help improve consumption spending, particularly in rural areas. We have seen FMCG staying muted during most of FY24. So, a populist budget can be beneficial as it would help in the revival of demand from the rural side in FMCG which has been laggard due to erratic rainfalls impacting the farming industry hence lower consumption from that side. We have already started seeing some green shots here and there in rural consumption, and a good budget would further aid in that growth.Also read: Economic Survey pegs FY25 GDP growth at 6.5-7%It’s all about consumption, we can talk about different sectors but it comes down to consumption for all. The country has been trying to become an electronic hub, and consumption growth can aid in domestic demand for electronics as well. For the auto industry, a subsidy in EVs (electric vehicles) for 2-wheelers and 3-wheelers would push the demand aid in government EV targets and also please consumers.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 04:52 PM IST with headline  Consumer price index base to be revised to 2024; producer price index to be expedited is: 
 Inflation base changed to 2024 India’s consumer inflation basket will have 2024 as base year, the Economic Survey 2023-24 said on July 22, noting that the government will also work towards expediting the availability of producer price index.“An extensive exercise for base revision of important economic statistics is being taken up at MoSPI (ministry of statistics and programme implementation). The exercise to change the base year of CPI from 2012 to 2024 has been initiated,” the survey said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMoneycontrol had earlier reported that the government was looking to revise consumer price index base to 2024. The ministry already has initiated market survey to identify shops across markets.Along with the base year, the commodities used in calculation of the consumer price index are also expected to undergo revision.The current series considers data from 2011-12, where many commodities like tape recorders, VCRs and cassettes have become obsolete.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 04:40 PM IST with headline  Uncertainty in job sector, impact on environment: Five important points that Economic Survey makes on AI is: 
 The Indian government in March approved a Rs 10,732 crore IndiaAI mission in a bid to develop the country's AI infrastructure capabilities and so on The Economic Survey has covered a range of topics that affect the Indian economy, and a large portion of it has been devoted to artificial intelligence and its impact on the country especially in sectors such as job creation, environment and so on.In the 476-page formulated report by chief economic advisor V Anantha Nageswaran, which was tabled in the Parliament on July 22, it was pointed out that AI has cast a "pall of uncertainty" in the job sector across all skill levels -- low, semi and high.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Its (Artificial Intelligence's) productivity-enhancing potential is beyond doubt, but the social impact of emerging technologies such as Artificial Intelligence (AI) via labour market disruptions and labour displacement is barely understood. It also has the potential to skew the capital and labour shares of income in favour of the former," the survey said.The report calls on the Centre, state governments and private sector to overcome these challenges in a bid to maintain high growth rates for the country."These will create barriers and hurdles to stained high growth rates for India in the coming years and decades. Overcoming these requires a grand alliance of Union and State government and private sector," the report said.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 01:55 PM IST with headline  Economic Survey flags lack of demand, indigenous tech, competitive market in India's space sector is: 
 India sends its 100th satellite in space: India's Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle, in its forty second flight (PSLV-C40), successfully launched the 710 kg Cartosat-2 Series Satellite for earth observation and 30 co-passenger satellites together weighing about 613 kg at lift-off on Friday. PSLV-C40 was launched from the First Launch Pad (FLP) of Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC) SHAR, Sriharikota. (Reuters) The Economic Survey, tabled in Parliament on July 22, hailed India's burgeoning space sector growth while acknowledging challenges such as gaps in indigenous technology development and uncertain long-term demand.Highlighting milestones like Chandrayaan-3's moon landing and advancements by private space startups, the report underscores the sector's role in the government's strategic agenda.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Economic Survey, tabled by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on July 22, said that the country boasts a fleet of 55 active space assets, catering to various needs like communication, navigation, Earth observation, meteorology, and scientific research. This strong foundation positions India for further exploration and innovation in the exciting realm of space.The Economic Survey, mainly observed challenges in the sector, when it came to the adoption of space technology, lack of technology needed for indigenisation, lack of competitive marketplace and so on."Adoption of space-based technology and services are often related to their adequate integration into the societal applications, towards meeting the requirements of end users," the Economic Survey said.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 01:55 PM IST with headline  Steep interest rates, uncertain tax policy may limit FDI flows into India: Economic Survey is: 
 Economic survey has cautioned banks on rampant misselling Higher interest rates as well as considerable subsidies for industries in developed economies may limit the growth of foreign direct investment (FDI) flows into India, noted the Economic Survey for 2023-24.Elaborating on the reasons behind a not to favourable environment for growth in FDI, the survey said that since interest rates in developed countries are much higher than they were during and beforeCovid years, it gives investors a higher opportunity cost to invest abroad.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAnd on top of that, emerging economies have to now compete with active industrial policies indeveloped economies involving considerable subsidies that encourage domestic investment, the survey added.The Economy Survey was released on July 22, a day before Finance Minister Sitharaman is scheduled to present the Budget for the ongoing financial year.Net FDI inflows to India declined from $42.0 billion during FY23 to $26.5 billion in FY24. However,in gross terms the moderation was by only 0.6 per cent in the previous fiscal year.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 02:13 PM IST with headline  India has created 21 SaaS unicorns since 2014, per Eco Survey 2024 is: 
 Economic Survey on SaaS The demand for scalable and efficient cloud solutions has led to the growth of Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) startups, resulting in India creating around 21 unicorns since 2014, the Economic Survey 2024, tabled in Parliament by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on July 22, said."The strength of the Indian tech start-up ecosystem lies in its large pool of start-ups, unicorns, and ability to scale," the survey, which gives a detailed account on the economy, its prospects and the policy challenges, added.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe highlights on SaaS in the survey comes amid increased growth and interest within India's SaaS ecosystem from investors.Follow our live blog for the latest on the Economic Survey 2024The Indian SaaS industry is poised to grow by 2.5X to reach a revenue if $26 billion by the end of 2026 despite a current slowdown due to tight macroeconomic pressure and a stiff funding winter, a recent report by VC firm Chiratae in collaboration with Zinnov said.In 2022, the government initiated projects such as 'Meghraj' for accelerating service delivery.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 03:43 PM IST with headline  Hiring in IT sector unlikely to pick up significantly, says Economic Survey is: 
 Representative image The Economic Survey for the financial year 2023-24, tabled on July 22 in the Parliament, said that hiring in the information technology (IT) sector had slowed down considerably in the last financial year, and even if hiring does not decline further, it is unlikely to pick up significantly.The comment on the IT sector in the Survey comes at a time when headcount in some of the biggest IT companies declined for the first time in decades. In February, tech industry body Nasscom had said the sector will create just 60,000 new jobs in the FY24, which pales in comparison to the 270,000 jobs that the sector created in the previous fiscal year.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdNonetheless, the additions in FY24 would take the total to 5.43 million employees in the services export sector.“However, leveraging the initiatives taken by the government and capturing the untapped potential in emerging markets, exports of business, consultancy and IT-enabled services can expand,” the survey read.The document further says that IT and business services will likely retain their prominent international presence in the medium term.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 01:46 PM IST with headline  Private capital formation slows down amid caution over cheaper imports: Economic Survey is: 
 Capex push to be cautious Private capex may take a little more to pick up after good growth over the last three years, as companies turn cautious, given the fears of countries exporting excess capacity at lower rates to India, said the Economic Survey 2023-24 on July 22.“There are early signs that the momentum in private capital formation has been sustained in FY24,” it said.Story continues below AdvertisementGross fixed capital formation was an important driver of growth in FY24, with the segment expanding in double digits.“GFCF by private non-financial corporations increased by 19.8 percent in FY23. There are early signs that the momentum in private capital formation has been sustained in FY24,” the survey noted.It said that with healthy balance sheets, banking and financial sector was well poised to cater to growing financing needs. “Improved balance sheets will help the private sector cater to strong investment demand.”The survey pointed out that households have also been party to this growth, with housing sales indicating a push for capital formation.The government’s capex increased nearly 30 percent in FY24, and is likely to continue in FY25 as well, according to experts
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 01:39 PM IST with headline  E-KYC cost down from Rs 1,000 to less than Rs 6: Economic survey 2024 is: 
 Representative image The use of Aadhaar card services has significantly eased the electronic Know Your Customer (e-KYC) process for organisations, while reducing the cost from around Rs 1,000 ($12) to less than Rs 6 (6 cents), the Economic Survey 2024 showed.KYC is one of the most vital process for financial institutions and businesses to get information like identity, addresses, phone numbers, etc. of customers. This is done to get a better understanding of the their identity and prevent fraudulent activities.Story continues below AdvertisementTypically, varied forms of identification documents can be used to electronically verify the customer’s credentials. However, amongst all, Aadhar card has remained the most convenient and commonly used.“Aadhaar has been instrumental in transforming India's authentication ecosystem. It has facilitated the KYC process, reducing the cost of conducting e-KYC from USD 12 to 6 cents, extending banking to millions of Indians and improving financial inclusion,” the survey said.The survey also highlighted advances made in 'Digital Financial Inclusion (DFI)' by leveraging India Stack, which has enabled millions to accept payments, settle invoices, and transfer funds anywhere in the country with just a few screen taps.Among the three critical components of India stack--identity, payment and data governance—Aadhar has been an important in the identity layer, the Survey said
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 01:29 PM IST with headline  Economic Survey nudges states to speed up implementation of labour codes is: 
 Further, the survey highlighted that there exist other regulatory hurdles to employment generation such as higher overtime wage premiums and barriers to job opportunities for women. The Economic Survey has nudged states to expedite the enactment of labour codes, saying rules needed to implement them have not been framed or notified.Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman tabled the survey, often described as the economic report card of the government, in Parliament on July 22, a day ahead of the Budget.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Industrial Relations Code, Code on Social Security, and Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code were passed by Parliament in 2020. In the Monsoon Session of 2019, the Code on Wages was passed but the rules necessary for their implementation have not been formulated and notified since then.“Labour” is in the Concurrent List of the Constitution and the power to make rules is entrusted with the Centre and states.There is also a need for pre-publication of rules by states in their respective official gazette for public consultation.Follow our live blog for the latest on the Economic Survey 2024
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 01:20 PM IST with headline  Prioritising a stable and simple tax regime in Budget 2024 to enhance ease of doing business is: 
 Businesses are now calling for stable and simplified tax laws to enhance the ease of doing business. By Gokul Chaudhri In the World Bank’s Doing Business Report 2020, India's ranking improved significantly, jumping 79 spots from 2014 to reach 63rd out of 190 countries. This progress underscores India's commitment to regulatory reforms, faster approvals, streamlined imports/exports, and reduced compliance burdens, all aimed at fostering transparency and accountability in business operations.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRecent tax policies, including corporate tax rationalisation and Goods and Services Tax (GST), have driven significant tax buoyancy, resulting in record-high revenues. Businesses are now calling for stable and simplified tax laws to enhance the ease of doing business and support India’s growth trajectory. Approximately 67 percent of industry leaders, according to a Deloitte Survey, anticipate this to be a key focus in the upcoming budget. A stable and pragmatic tax policy is crucial for sustainable business expansion and increased foreign investments, reducing uncertainty caused by frequent policy changes and disputes.Simplified tax structure: Navigating India’s tax structure has long been a formidable task for businesses, impacting their operational efficiency and overall ease of doing business. There is a pressing need to shift the tax paradigm from focusing on rates to prioritising revenue generation. This transformation can be achieved through moderate tax rates and an expanded tax base, aligning with the vision of 'Developed India' by 2047. Simplifying the tax structure could entail implementing a unified rate for businesses, while individuals can benefit from a straight forward 2 to 3 tier-rate structure featuring low or moderate rates, eliminating surcharges, cesses and maximising deductions.With the rising inflation, the current standard deduction limit of INR 50,000 is insufficient to cover the escalating costs and expenses associated with higher standard of living. There is a strong expectation for a higher linked standard deduction. Additionally, suspending tax compliance requirements during maternity or other significant life events would significantly reduce the compliance burden for individuals, particularly women.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 01:43 PM IST with headline  Around 77 % companies liquidated under IBC were already defunct, says Economic Survey is: 
 According to the Survey, over 3000 companies have emerged out of the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP) as of March 2024 The Economic Survey of India which was made available on July 22 revealed that around 2,476 companies went to liquidation under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) as of March 2024."Around 77 per cent of these corporate debtors were defunct at the beginning of the process and were, on average, valued at 7 per cent of the outstanding debt," the survey said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAccording to the survey, liquidation gives the last window of opportunity for the revival of a company. It said "Around 50 businesses have been rescued at this last resort. 586 firms were dissolved at the end of the liquidation process, releasing whatever resources were needed for alternate uses."The IBC was introduced to strengthen the corporate insolvency regime. The code introduced timeframes for resolving corporate insolvencies. The survey revealed that the eight years since it was introduced in 2016, 31,394 corporate debtors involving a value of Rs 13.9 lakh crore have been disposed of (including pre-admission case disposals) as of March 2024Threat of loss of control pushing promoters to settle cases:
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 01:09 PM IST with headline  PLI scheme expansion will help lower trade deficit is: 
 Trade deficit to lower The external conditions are likely to remain steady for India with trade deficit declining further as the government expands the production linked incentive scheme and "creates a globally competitive manufacturing base in several product categories", the Economic Survey 2023-24 said.India’s current account deficit reduced to 0.7 percent of the GDP in FY24, as the country posted a surplus in the last quarter of the fiscal.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"India needs to focus on improving its competitiveness in many product areas. For example, India has tremendous potential in becoming a large global exporter in agricultural commodities.The reduction in trade deficit from 2 percent in the previous fiscal follows from a reduction in trade deficit as commodity prices normalised in FY24, as services and remittances trade boomed for the country," noted.In the fourth quarter, current account returned to surplus after a hiatus of 11 quarters.
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 08:44 PM IST with headline  MOSPI reconstitutes committee to advise on price index revisions is: 
 The revamped committee will advise the ministry on creation of new indices on consumer prices, wholesale prices and producer price index, which will help determine consumer inflation and wholesale inflation In a bid to revise the inflation indicators in the country, the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MOSPI) has announced the reconstitution of the technical advisory committee, or TAC, on statistics of prices and cost of living.The revamped committee will advise the ministry on creation of new indices on consumer prices, wholesale prices and producer price index, which will help determine consumer inflation and wholesale inflation.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt present, the base year and basket of goods considered by India is over a decade old, with both following 2012 as the base year.The government had in June released the full results of the Household Consumption Expenditure Survey 2022-23, which will determine the basket of goods for new consumer price index series.The ministry is conducting two back-to-back surveys to verify the results, as it had to junk the 2017-18 results citing data inconsistencies.
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 08:20 PM IST with headline  Fruits and vegetables, processed cereal exports jump 9% in Q1FY25 is: 
 India's fruit trade rises Exports of fruits and vegetables and cereal preparations and miscellaneous product items increased 9 percent in the first quarter of FY25, as per data released by Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) on July 19.While the over agricultural trade declined by 3 percent, owing to restrictions on rice and decline in cashew and oil meals products, trade in non-regulated categories was 3 percent higher, Abhishek Dev, chairman, APEDA said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn the first two months of the year, dairy products were up 30 percent, whereas an increase in global cocoa prices pushed the trade up by 50 percent.On the other hand, non-basmati rice trade, the exports of which have been banned, was down 13 percent, and maize exports had dropped 75 percent compared with the previous year.Maize exports were down, as prices of domestic market are higher than the international market and there is good production across the globe.
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 07:11 PM IST with headline  Economic Survey preview: Watch for GDP growth forecast, comments on food inflation, climate strategies is: 
 The country's average real GDP growth has been more than 7 percent over the last three years. The Economic Survey will be presented on July 22, a day ahead of the full Budget for 2024-25. The survey will outline the key economic metrics of the country, most notably the forecast for real GDP growth for the ongoing financial year.Moneycontrol lists key things to watch out for in the series of documents that are prepared under the supervision of India's chief economic advisor V Anantha Nageswaran.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdGDP growth forecastThe keenly awaited number in the Economic Survey is the GDP growth forecast for the ongoing financial year. In the last full survey presented on January 31, 2023, GDP growth was seen in the range of 6-6.8 percent for FY24. This was much lower than the statistics ministry’s latest estimate that sees GDP growth at 8.2 percent in FY24.On January 29, two days before the interim Budget for 2024-25 was presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on February 1, the finance ministry came out with a report which estimated a GDP growth rate of close to 7 percent for the ongoing fiscal year.
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 06:00 PM IST with headline  Business sentiment sees further improvement in first quarter of FY25: NCAER-NSE Survey is: 
 The survey indicated that firms expecting an improvement in conditions went up to 71 percent from 66 percent earlier. Business sentiment in India improved to 149.8 from 138.2 in the first quarter of the fiscal year, indicating a carry forward of momentum from the previous year, according to a survey released by NCAER and NSE on July 19. The results come just days before the government is to release its economic survey, predicting future trajectory of growth and Budget.The survey indicated that firms expecting an improvement in conditions went up to 71 percent from 66 percent earlier.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe survey interviewed 497 firms across six cities in June to find out their assessment of the present climate, capacity utilisation, financial conditions, and economic assessment over the next six months.“Firms’ perception about the improvement in their own financial position is particularly noteworthy as the share of such firms was 67 percent, the highest since Q3 of 2010-11 (76%),” said Bornali Bhandari, professor, NCAER.The number of firms perceiving an improvement in investment climate went up to 60 percent from nearly half in the previous quarter, with 97.8 percent reporting capacity utilisation at optimal levels.
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 05:23 PM IST with headline  Portal to address non-tariff issues within 2-3 months: Commerce ministry is: 
 Non-tariffs measures on trade rise The ministry of commerce and industry will have a portal ready to address non-tariff issues within the next two-three months, the additional secretary, department of commerce, said on July 19.“We are monitoring through a committee and coming up with a portal on sanitary and phytosanitary and technical barriers to trade issues,” Rajesh Agrawal said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“We will try to get all exporters who raise concerns. There is a task force looking at resolution strategy and a portal will monitor efforts,” he noted.According to an UNCTAD study, the trade costs of non tariff measures are more than double of tariff measures.Agrawal noted that as trade increases, such kinds of measures are expected to increase.
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 06:31 PM IST with headline  The Reading List: July 19, 2024 is: 
 A list of articles and social media gems curated by our research and opinion teams. In a world strapped for time, we thought you may find it useful to have a selection of articles we read this past week. As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. Occasionally, we may stray from these subjects.These links may be from external websites we frequent o
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 03:08 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | A rate of debate is: 
 It is that interest rate where the economy is growing at potential and the inflation rate is at target. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIf there is one debate that refuses to die among economists, it is that of the real interest rate, or the natural rate of an economy. Natural rate is the interest rate at which an economy operates at full capacity without being inflationary. In other words, it is that interest rate where the economy is growing at potential and the inflation rate is at target.India’s natural rate was estimated to have been reduced to 1.1 percent, after the global financial crisis. But much has changed since then and a punishing pandemic in 2020 has upended several economic assumptions across the globe. The Reserve Bank of India’s staff has updated the natural rate and estimates it to be in the 1.4-1.9 percent range for the fourth quarter of FY24, far higher than 0.8-1.0 percent estimated for the third quarter of FY22. This is consistent with the view that the economy’s potential growth rate has increased post pandemic, in contrast to popular beliefs of the pandemic dragging the potential down for a long period.The RBI believes that there are several structural factors contributing to an increase in India’s growth potential. Aside the tax reforms such as the goods and services tax (GST), demographic changes that boast of a large share of working class population, fiscal prudence, and technological innovation leading to productivity gains would contribute to increasing economic potential.
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 02:51 PM IST with headline  Spatial spread of monsoon needs to correct for food inflation to cool, say economists is: 
 Rice production affected by spatial anomalies A course correction for the monsoon appears essential to tame down the simmering price rise in India.Inflation in rice and pulses is likely to stay elevated unless the spatial spread of monsoon doesn't alter, according to economists. A Moneycontrol analysis of agriculture ministry data shows that some states like Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana and West Bengal are recording below-normal sowing of rice.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“While overall monsoon is normal at pan-India level, there is considerable volatility at the state level, spatial spread is a concern,” said Paras Jasrai, senior analyst at India Ratings and Research.While rice and pulses sowing has improved compared with the previous year, data shows that it is still lower than the normal level.While rice sowing during the kharif season, for instance, shot up 20 percent from the previous year as of July 12, it was down 44 percent from normal for the corresponding week.
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 02:51 PM IST with headline  India digital public infrastructure is charting the journey towards becoming $1-tn digital economy by 2027-28 is: 
 India’s ‘Digital India’ programme was launched in 2015. The Economic Survey of India for 2023-24—the government's annual report card—will be tabled by Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs Nirmala Sitharaman in Parliament on July 22. Among other things, it is expected to highlight India’s achievements in digital public infrastructure.And those achievements are nothing to sneeze at. “India did an incredible pole vault in digital public infrastructure. We achieved in nine years what would have taken 50 years without DPI,” India’s G20 sherpa Amitabh Kant had said recently. Digital public infrastructure or as it is commonly referred to colloquially, the India stack, lies at the intersection of technology, market and governance, enabling remarkable innovation and palpable change across different realms. Aadhaar, DigiLocker and Unified Payment Interface (UPI) are some of the prime examples of India’s DPI services. UPI achieved the milestone of processing 12 billion transactions in a month in January 2024.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe government is aiming to be a $1-trillion digital economy by 2027-28. As part of this, the Digital India programme was launched in 2015.India aims to develop digital infrastructure as a core utility for every citizen. Between 2015 and 2021, rural internet subscriptions increased by 200 percent, compared to a 158 percent increase in urban areas, aided, no doubt, by the low base effect. This demonstrates the government's intensified efforts to equalise digital connectivity between rural and urban regions, Economic Survey 2023 added.To be sure, the explosion in digital payments has been a driving force in this increased connectedness.
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 02:40 PM IST with headline  India Budget 2024: Capital gain tax regime is too cluttered. It needs an overhaul is: 
 Global expansion of Indian businesses have collectively added to the complexities of computing capital gains. By SR Patnaik, and Reema Arya The Budget 2024 is less than a week away and the taxpayers are eagerly waiting for the revisions and amendments to be introduced by the Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Considering this is the first budget after the general election, it undoubtedly carries the weight of numerous, and at times, unreal expectations.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAmong the myriad of reforms awaited, a comprehensive overhaul of the capital gains tax regime stands out as a top priority for corporations, individuals, and other stakeholders. This is because while the capital gains taxation regime has evolved over the years and the same has led to creation of a large number of sub-categories for taxation of every type of capital asset based on the time-period for which it was held, how it was acquired and being sold, the currency used to acquire, if the asset was acquired as a part of earlier reorganisation, etc.With increasing internationalisation of Indian businesses and economy, increasing collaboration between Indian and global businesses and global expansion of Indian businesses have collectively added to the complexities of computing capital gains. These aspects have led to disparity on account of rate of tax, benefits of indexation or foreign currency fluctuation, benefits available for taxpayers and incentives offered, etc. and creates scope of confusion amongst the various categories of taxpayers.On account of the above factors, it is expected that the Finance Minister will pay heed to the increasing demand for rationalisation and simplification of the capital gains taxation regime in India.
 
The news published on the date July 18, 2024 01:41 PM IST with headline  Fiscal deficit at 5% of GDP for FY25, nominal growth at 11%: MC Economists Poll is: 
 Fiscal deficit to be lower say economists The government is likely to record a lower fiscal deficit and a higher growth than what was estimated in the Interim Budget, as it retains its focus on fiscal prudence, economists said in a poll conducted by Moneycontrol.The median forecast of 16 economists pegged the fiscal deficit at 5 percent of the GDP, 10 basis points lower than the 5.1 percent target set in the Interim Budget. None of the economists polled by Moneycontrol expects a slippage on the fiscal front.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn the other hand, the economists noted that the output is likely to get a boost with the government projecting an 11 percent nominal growth, compared with 10.5 percent projected in the Interim Budget.IDFC First Bank and ANZ pegged the growth at 11.5 percent, higher than other forecasts in the poll.
 
The news published on the date July 18, 2024 01:28 PM IST with headline  India plans to ease rice export curbs as stocks surge to record is: 
 India plans to ease rice export curbs as stocks surge to record India is likely to cut the floor price for basmati rice exports and replace the 20% export tax on parboiled rice with a fixed duty on overseas shipments, government sources said, as rice inventories in the country jumped a record high.The world's biggest rice exporter imposed various curbs on exports in 2023 and continued them in 2024 in an effort to keep local prices in check ahead of the general elections held in April-May.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdNew Delhi is expected to lower the basmati rice's minimum export price (MEP) to $800-$850 a metric ton, down from $950 a ton, to boost shipments, said the sources, who didn't wish to be identified as they are not authorised to talk to media.Lowering the MEP would help India retain its market share against Pakistan, which exported a record amount of rice this year due to New Delhi's export curbs.India and Pakistan are the leading exporters of basmati rice. New Delhi exports more than 4 million metric tons of basmati - the premium long-grain variety famed for its aroma - to countries such as Iran, Iraq, Yemen, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and the United States.
 
The news published on the date July 18, 2024 12:59 PM IST with headline  Investors grapple with the Trump trade is: 
 As Trump’s economic policy platform becomes clearer and traders and investors view the ghastly attempt on his life as a boost to his chances of electoral success. Katie MartinIn markets, the Trump Trade is on. It is just a little lost and very messy.For months, the chance of Donald Trump finding his way back into the White House has been the biggest potential jolt to markets that no one wants to talk about. When asked about it, professional investors generally mumble something vague about taxes and spending. “Well the fiscal programmes are roughly the same as Joe Biden’s so we don’t see much impac
 
The news published on the date July 18, 2024 01:12 PM IST with headline  Karnataka govt will provide industry-ready skills for locals, no need for businesses to panic: IT minister Priyank Kharge is: 
 Karnataka's IT-BT Minister Priyanka Kharge assured businesses on July 18 that the state government is focused on providing industry-ready skills to locals, aiming to ease tensions amid debates over a job reservation bill.The state government was forced to put on hold the bill proposing job reservations for locals in the private sector on July 17 following industry backlash.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso, read: After backlash, Karnataka puts job quota-for-locals bill on holdSpeaking to Moneycontrol at the Vidhana Soudha on July 18, Kharge said: "The draft bill prepared by the labour department still has to go through inter-ministerial consultation, legal review, and stand the test of law.""The state government's vision is to ensure that we provide more job opportunities for locals and equip them with the best industry-ready skill sets so they are not only employed locally but also globally," said Kharge.
 
The news published on the date July 18, 2024 08:59 AM IST with headline  Union Budget 2024: Rural India needs policy support to become resilient is: 
 For this fiscal, the interim budget pegged 13.7% higher spending on these schemes to support rural employment and incomes Building a resilient rural economy is quintessential to India’s long-term growth because seven out of 10 citizens live there. The hinterland also accounts for 60% of private consumption, according to estimates using the National Sample Survey Office (NSSO) data. Agriculture remains the mainstay in this large swathe, even as other sources of employment have expanded over time.About 98 million, or 57% of rural households, are engaged in agriculture — 40% self-employed in cultivation, 14% in casual labou
 
The news published on the date July 18, 2024 08:15 AM IST with headline  India’s digital payments system needs simpler KYC process to reach newer heights is: 
 Digital payments in India are projected to double by 2030. India's digitalization journey has become a notable success, with the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) standing out globally as a model case study. The rise of digital payments in India, from $300 billion in 2018 to $3.6 trillion in 2024, with projections to double by 2030, demonstrates a significant transformation.Robust demographic expansion, improved economic conditions, widespread internet access, and strong government support for digital infrastructure have fuelled this growth in digital payments across the country. Along with UPI, other digital payment instruments such as cards and digital wallets have also gained traction, accounting for around 10% of current digital transaction values. This progress aligns with the Reserve Bank of India's goal to widely expand digital payments.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndia has established itself as a global leader in the digital payment sector, accounting for a significant percentage of worldwide transaction volumes. UPI's acceptance in several countries, with plans to expand further, underscores its international success. The decline in cash-based transactions to less than 60% highlights the widespread adoption of digital payments across India. UPI’s interoperability, ease of use, and real-time settlement have made it a preferred choice for a wide range of transactions, from peer-to-peer transfers to merchant payments.UPI transactions have experienced remarkable growth, surpassing 10 billion monthly transactions. Additionally, with countries like Singapore, the UAE, Mauritius, Oman, and Indonesia accepting UPI payments there has been a significant increase in cross-border transactions using the UPI method of payment.Transcending Demographic Categories
 
The news published on the date July 18, 2024 07:02 PM IST with headline  MC Exclusive: With an eye on state elections, kisan and mahila could be focus for Budget 2024 is: 
 Budget could see a focus on Kisan and Mahila The upcoming budget may see an enhanced focus on farmers and women, given the recent political context of the BJP losing its absolute majority in the general elections and upcoming assembly elections in a few states.Two people aware of the budget discussions told Moneycontrol that the annual payout to farmers under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi could increase to Rs 12,000 .Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdCurrently, an income support of Rs 6,000 is given per year in three equal instalments to all land holding farmers. The government could take this up to Rs 12,000 a year. Further, instead of quarterly payouts, a cash transfer of Rs 1,000 could be made every month.The budget could also announce a scheme under which Rs 1 lakh would be transferred to women below the poverty line.The Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, a rural housing scheme, has been a success story for the government. The Budget could see an enhanced focus on the scheme. As of June 12, 2024, 2.94 crore houses have been sanctioned and 2.62 crore houses have been completed.
 
The news published on the date July 17, 2024 07:44 PM IST with headline  US stocks mostly down amid talk of 'overbought' market is: 
 The Dow remained modestly positive, while both the S&P 500 and Nasdaq were firmly in the red Wall Street stocks mostly fell early Wednesday on weakness in Nvidia and other tech giants amid talk that markets are "overbought" after numerous records.The Dow remained modestly positive, while both the S&P 500 and Nasdaq were firmly in the red.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAbout 15 minutes into trading, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 0.1 percent at 40,980.17, edging higher from Tuesday's record close.The broad-based S&P 500 dropped 1.0 percent to 5,612.86, while the tech-rich Nasdaq Composite Index fell 1.8 percent to 18,171.13."The contention that the broader market is overbought on a short-term basis and due for a pullback is valid in its own right, yet it has been helped along this morning by some other news," said Briefing.com analyst Patrick O'Hare.O'Hare said investors were unnerved by comments from Donald Trump in a published interview that Taiwan "should pay" the United States for defense.Data showed that US industrial production cooled in June but still exceeded analyst expectations, with manufacturing and utilities output both rising.Among individual companies, Johnson & Johnson rose 2.0 percent after reporting better than expected profits on a 4.3 percent increase in sales.Story continues below AdvertisementThe drug and medical device company expressed confidence in its pipeline as it pursues regulatory approval of new products
 
The news published on the date July 17, 2024 06:47 PM IST with headline  Rising US rate cut optimism steers gold to all-time high is: 
 Rising US rate cut optimism steers gold to all-time high Gold prices hit a record high on Wednesday, as comments from Federal Reserve officials boosted expectations of a September interest rate cut in the U.S.Spot gold was up 0.2% at $2,473.89 per ounce as of 1002 GMT, after hitting an all-time high of $2,482.29 earlier in the session. U.S. gold futures gained 0.4% to $2,478.50.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"It seems like it's evident that the Federal Reserve is going to cut rates in September and that, coupled with the concept of the de-dollarization of how central banks have been buying more gold versus the U.S. Treasury yields, are currently the catalyst that is driving gold to these highs" said Alex Ebkarian, chief operating officer at Allegiance Gold.Fed Chair Jerome Powell said on Monday recent inflation readings "add somewhat to confidence" that the pace of price increases is returning to the central bank's target in a sustainable fashion.Fed's Adriana Kugler and John Williams also expressed cautious optimism that inflation is returning to its 2% target.
 
The news published on the date July 17, 2024 06:09 PM IST with headline  In Charts: India's economy poised for robust growth ahead of Union Budget
 
The news published on the date July 16, 2024 04:29 PM IST with headline  Rupee rises 3 paise to close at 83.58 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee rises 3 paise to close at 83.58 against US dollar The rupee consolidated in a narrow range and settled for the day 3 paise higher at 83.58 (provisional) against the US dollar on Tuesday, on firm domestic markets and sustained inflow of foreign capital.Forex traders said a decline in crude oil prices favoured the rupee, while a strong US dollar capped sharp gains.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 83.59, and touched an intraday high of 83.53 and a low of 83.60 against the dollar during the trading session.It finally settled at 83.58 (provisional) against the American currency, registering a gain of 3 paise from its previous close.On Monday, the rupee depreciated 10 paise to 83.61 against the US dollar.
 
The news published on the date July 16, 2024 08:04 PM IST with headline  Why China's slowdown is not India's headache? is: 
 China growth slowdown to have marginal impact on growth The Chinese economy is likely to pull down global growth further, as it struggles to reach its 5 percent target for 2024, but the impact on India may be limited, economists told Moneycontrol, as they noted that lower commodity prices could help curb the downside.The Chinese economy grew 4.7 percent in the second quarter of 2024, its slowest pace since January-March 2023. The economy had expanded 5.3 percent in the first quarter of the year, down from its heady 7 percent growth days between 2014 and 2018.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“Global growth will be affected by China slowdown as it will affect trade. India not to be affected much as we are more of domestic economy,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Bank of Baroda.The Chinese government is targeting a 5 percent growth for 2024, which experts point that the economy is likely to miss.
 
The news published on the date July 16, 2024 02:54 PM IST with headline  Revival in rural economy still a quarter away; monsoon, inflation, budget to play key roles: Experts is: 
 Monsoon and lower inflation key for pick up India's rural economy will need another quarter to rebound, economists told Moneycontrol, as they noted that the consumer goods growth seen in May was temporary.“The Q3 will be indicative of full revival, if at all,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at Bank of Baroda.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdConsumer durables production, an indicator of rural demand, increased to 12.3 percent in May from 10 percent a month back, according to data released on July 12.But economists warn against reading too much into the data.
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 06:27 PM IST with headline  Govt plans to delink state and central premium contributions from crop insurance claims is: 
 Four crore farmers were covered under the crop insurance (2023-24), which is the highest ever. The government is working on delinking the premium contribution by the central government and states under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) and has directed the insurance companies to issue the policy and process at least 70 percent of the claim even if there is a delay in receiving the states' contribution of the premium, an official said.The move is aimed to address the late disbursement of claims to farmers under PMFBY.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“The government is trying to desegregate the farmer, state and Centre’s share of premium under PMFBY. The policy is not issued till the state and Centre’s share of the premium gets credited to the insurance company. Eligibility of claim arises only after that. The government is thus delinking the Centre and states’ share of the premium,” the official told Moneycontrol.The premium splitThe premium for the scheme is heavily subsidised, with the central and state governments sharing the major portion of the premium burden. The subsidy ratio is typically 50:50 between the central and state governments. For North Eastern and Himalayan states, the ratio is 90:10. Farmers pay a nominal premium rate under the scheme – 2 percent for Kharif crops, 1.5 percent for Rabi crops and 5 percent for commercial and horticultural crops.
 
The news published on the date July 16, 2024 01:07 PM IST with headline  Defence ministry notifies 5th indigenisation list with 346 components for DPSUs is: 
 Items in the indigenization list can only be procured from the Indian Industry based on the timelines provided by the ministry Union ministry of defence on July 16 issued its fifth indigenisation list consisting 346 items for the defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs), the ministry said in a statement.The list includes strategically-important line replacement units/systems/ sub-systems/assemblies/sub-assemblies/spares & components and raw materials, with import substitution value worth Rs 1,048 crore, according to the ministry.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdItems in the indigenization list can only be procured from the Indian Industry based on the timelines provided by the ministry.The items on the list will be undertaken by DPSUs for indigenization via various various routes including ‘Make’ procedure or in-house development involving the industry, including MSMEs.“This will provide impetus to the growth in economy, enhanced investment in defence and lead to reduced import dependence. In addition, this will augment the design capabilities of domestic defence Industry due to the involvement of academia and research institutions,” the ministry said.
 
The news published on the date July 16, 2024 12:42 PM IST with headline  What can Union Budget 2024 deliver to excite markets further? is: 
 Budget Highlights - Quarterly performance largely backed by improved realisations - Medium-term triggers China plus and protectionist measures for tyre industry - Valuations not inexpensive; but improved medium-term outlook HighlightsSharp upswing in the markets post electionsBudget the first true account of government’s vision amid coalition politics pressureMarkets expect focus on capex/manufacturing to continue while not ignoring consumptionSticking to fiscal consolidation may not be a tall ask amid the windfall from the RBI and tax buoyancyIndian equities have risen over 12 percent from the low on the day election results were announced on June 4. Prima facie, Modi 3.0 looks same as the previous regime. The undercurren
 
The news published on the date July 16, 2024 09:14 AM IST with headline  Will the hype and hoopla over AI spending finally pay off? is: 
 Representative image HighlightsGoldman Sachs report runs a reality check on AI spendingSome experts see only limited gains, while others are more optimisticThe report concludes with a positive note on AI spendingIndia needs to take note of the Goldman report as it chases the AI dreamSince India’s AI readiness needs to improve, it has to be carefulIndia needs to be judicious with AI spending because of its disruptive powerRemember Victor Frankenstein? This immortal character, created by Mary Shelley in he
 
The news published on the date July 16, 2024 11:18 AM IST with headline  69% CEOs say govt should focus on tax simplification, energy reforms under Modi 3.0: MC Survey is: 
 The Modi 3.0 is likely to continue with the transformational reforms with increased focus on capex and tax simplifications. The Modi 3.0 administration is likely to continue with transformational reforms, with an increased focus on capex, tax simplifications, revenue augmentation, governance and energy, 69 percent of CEOs said in the MC-Deloitte CEO Survey.The survey asked 78 CEOs across industries for their assessment of the reform agenda of the newly elected government.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhile a majority of the CEOs said that the government will continue its focus on capital expenditure and energy reforms, 14 percent said that the government may opt for more populist measures in terms of subsidies, cash transfers and welfare programmes, with reduced focus on capex and infrastructure spending.Do Not Miss | Budget ki baat: Raamdeo Agarwal, Vijay Kedia and Samir Arora express their hopes and prayersAnother 13 percent said that the pace of overall economic reforms is likely to slow down.
 
The news published on the date July 16, 2024 08:19 AM IST with headline  Budget Snapshot: The post COVID bump-up in Indian Railways’ revenues is: 
 Indian Railways Revenues at Indian Railways accelerated after the COVID pandemic. Total traffic revenues increased by 8.1 percent per annum on average in the five years to FY24, compared to 6.4 percent average annual expansion in FY14-FY19. Revenues gathered pace as Indian Railways ferried more goods. (image) Indian Railways revenueFreight traffic in volume terms increased by 5.3 percent in FY19-FY24 compared to 3.1 percent in the earlier five years. Passenger traffic slumped during COVID an
 
The news published on the date July 15, 2024 10:06 PM IST with headline  World Youth Skills Day: How is India placed with over 50% of population below 25? is: 
 According to the United Nations, the number of young people aged 15-24 globally comprises 1.2 billion individuals Skilling has become a buzzword in today’s rapidly evolving world. Continuous upskilling is crucial for professionals to remain relevant in a dynamic job market.Instituted in 2014 by the United Nations General Assembly with the aim of equipping young people with skills for employment, entrepreneurship and decent work and celebrated on July 15 every year, this year’s theme is ‘Youth Skills for Peace & Development’.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAccording to the United Nations, the number of young people aged 15-24 globally comprises 1.2 billion individuals. This demographic is projected to rise to 1.3 billion by 2030, representing 16 percent of the world's population. India occupies a unique position, with over 50 percent of the total population below 25 years of age. However, recent data from the National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) reveals skill gaps in high-demand sectors like IT, healthcare, manufacturing, agriculture, and renewable energy, underscoring a critical need to skill, up-skill, and right-skill the country’s youth.So, how are corporate houses looking to address this important issue?“At HDFC Bank, we believe that empowering our youth with the right skills is crucial for the socio-economic development of our nation. Our Parivartan training programmes are designed not only to provide vocational skills linked with market demands, but also to instil confidence and ambition in young minds. By collaborating with esteemed partners and focusing on sectors with high growth potential, we are committed to bridging the skills gap and creating a robust and inclusive workforce for the future. Our mission is to ensure that every young individual we reach has the opportunity to thrive and contribute to India's dynamic economy,” said Nusrat Pathan, Head of CSR at HDFC Bank.
 
The news published on the date July 12, 2024 03:53 PM IST with headline  Business in the Week Ahead: July 15-19 is: 
 Event calendar Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) kickstarted the Q1 FY25 earnings season on a positive note. The company reported the best quarterly revenue growth in a year. Key business vertical banking and financial services returned to growth on a sequential basis. Yet, growth rates are muted. Management remains cautious on overall demand outlook.The coming week will see results from major companies including Reliance Industries (RIL), Infosys, HDFC Bank, Bajaj Auto, Asian Paints, LTIMindtree, UltraTech Cement, Wipro and Kotak Mahindr
 
The news published on the date July 12, 2024 03:09 PM IST with headline  The US Federal Reserve should cut rates now. Sadly, it won’t is: 
 Thursday’s wildly encouraging consumer price index report shows that the Federal Reserve should be cutting policy rates at its meeting later this month. Unfortunately, they’ll probably keep us waiting until September.On the inflation front, just about everything seems to be going right. CPI fell 0.1 percent in June from the previous month and was up just 3 percent from the same period a year earlier. Primary rents and owners’ equivalent rent — the heavily weighted and inertial housing categories that have bedeviled the Fed for two years — are finally cooling on what looks to be a sustainable basis. And used car prices are still falling like stones.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe right move is to start lowering policy rates at the next decision on July 31. The Fed has a dual mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices, and recent developments leave real interest rates tight at a time when unemployment is creeping higher and job growth is slowing. Labour market trouble can snowball quickly and unpredictably once it begins.A rule developed by my Bloomberg Opinion colleague Claudia Sahm shows that historically, the economy is already in a recession once the three-month average of the unemployment rate rises at least a half percentage point above its low in the past 12 months. At present, it’s up 0.43 percentage point. The argument for cutting now is simple: High inflation appears to be vanquished, so why take risks with the employment side of the Fed’s mandate?
 
The news published on the date July 12, 2024 01:43 PM IST with headline  Indian banks eye record infra bond issue for second straight fiscal year is: 
 Indian banks eye record infra bond issue for second straight fiscal year Indian banks are set to raise around 400 billion rupees ($4.79 billion) through infrastructure bonds in July and August, potentially setting a record for the second consecutive year, according to five merchant bankers on Friday.If successful, funds raised via these bonds in the first five months of the current fiscal year started in April will surpass the 544 billion rupees raised in fiscal year 2023/24.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdInfrastructure bond issues had picked up last year, and the trend will continue as the gap between credit demand and deposit growth continues, said Shameek Ray, head of debt capital markets at ICICI Securities Primary Dealership.Government spending on infrastructure and a pick-up in investment in sectors like steel, roads and renewable energy is generating demand for funds, said Arnab Choudhury, head of debt capital markets at SBI Capital Markets.Infrastructure bonds are issued to finance long-term development projects.
 
The news published on the date July 12, 2024 01:12 PM IST with headline  Octogenarians to outnumber babies by 2063, shows UN population estimate is: 
 More older people than young by end of century India, the home to one of the youngest populations in the world, will have more people aged over 80 than babies between 0 to 4 years by 2063. The 80-plus population is set to grow nearly three-fold faster than that of babies by 2100, according to estimates released by the UN.The dependency ratio, which is the number of children and older people as a proportion of working age population (15-64 year old), is expected to rise to 77.5 percent by 2100.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA Moneycontrol analysis shows that within the next 30 years, India will have 50 percent dependent people compared with 46.6 percent today.In 2054, India’s population is likely to rise 16.6 percent to 1.692 billion from 1.451 billion projected for July 2024.
 
The news published on the date July 12, 2024 01:18 PM IST with headline  Economists are paying more attention to our inflation fears is: 
 - Soumaya KeynesAsk people what they think will happen to inflation in future, and you will get some pretty funky answers. On average they predict too much price growth, and also disagree wildly among themselves. This is awkward for economists, who would often rather assume away such complications. Some have responded with denial, doubting that household surveys of inflation are useful at all.In the context of painfully high price growth, over the past few years there has bee
 
The news published on the date July 12, 2024 01:00 PM IST with headline  Online betting should be included as scheduled offences under PMLA: Report is: 
 The report suggests MEITy should create nodal authority to register online real money games. Online betting and gambling activities should be included as scheduled offences under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002, to strengthen India's anti-money laundering framework, an institution under the Ministry of Home Affairs said in its report titled ‘Curbing betting and gambling in India—A national security imperative’.PMLA equips authorities with robust tools to investigate and trace illicit proceeds from online betting and gambling empowering them to disrupt the financial networks supporting these activities effectively.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“Once online betting and gambling activities are classified as scheduled offence under PMLA or are prohibited under regulatory frameworks, necessary international cooperation agreements should be entered into with jurisdictions where the majority of these platforms operate, such as Cyprus and Malta. Additionally, enforcement authorities should collaborate with international law enforcement agencies to issue arrest warrants and take appropriate legal actions,” the Rashtriya Raksha University report said.Rashtriya Raksha University under the Ministry of Home Affairs was established by the Parliament Act No. 31 in 2020. It aims to become an academic-research-training ecosystem for national security and police.A centralised legal framework with clear definitions for games of skill and chance and robust consumer protection measures is crucial for creating a safe and thriving online gaming ecosystem in India. This framework should also balance the need for state governments’ autonomy with the requirement for national uniformity in the digital age, the report said.
 
The news published on the date July 12, 2024 12:20 PM IST with headline  India is systemically prone to high food inflation – but it’s fixable is: 
 - HighlightsConsumer companies and policymakers have pointed to persistent food inflation in IndiaGovernment’s buffer stock management of key food items is making only a small difference to retail pricesLocalised and concentrated production make output and prices vulnerable to weather eventsGovt intervention must be at appropriate times without hurting producers or consumersFarmers must be sensitised on climate impact and also aided in managing the sameAt the annual general body meeting of shareholders of Nestle India Ltd – the Indi
 
The news published on the date July 12, 2024 10:45 AM IST with headline  India to clock GDP growth of 7% in FY25: NITI Aayog member Arvind Virmani is: 
 The Indian economy will grow around 7 per cent in the current fiscal year and is on track to maintain a similar growth rate for several years, NITI Aayog member Arvind Virmani said on Friday.Virmani said there are new challenges facing the country and they will have to be dealt with.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Indian economy will grow at 7 per cent plus minus point 0.5 per cent... I expect that we are on track to grow at 7 per cent for several years from today," he told PTI in an interview.Last month, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) pegged the FY25 gross domestic product (GDP) growth rate at 7.2 per cent.Responding to a question on the decline in private consumption expenditures in the last fiscal year, Virmani said it is actually recovering now.
 
The news published on the date July 12, 2024 10:13 AM IST with headline  MCA panel suggests raising to Rs 75 crore the threshold for businesses to maintain, audit cost accounts is: 
 This recommendation is part of the government's broader strategy to support SMEs. To ease the compliance burden of small and medium enterprises (SMEs), a government panel has suggested significantly raising the turnover threshold for companies to maintain and audit cost accounts.The panel has recommended increasing the limit to Rs 75 crore in any of the past three years, the Economic Times has reported.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt present, the mandated turnover limits are set at Rs 25 crore for companies in six regulated sectors and Rs 35 crore 33 unregulated sectors.A company that exceeds these thresholds must conduct mandatory cost audits and maintain detailed cost accounts.Under the new proposal, these requirements would only apply to companies with a turnover of Rs 75 crore or more, the report said.
 
The news published on the date July 12, 2024 09:41 AM IST with headline  How tight is the Russia-India trade embrace? is: 
 According to commerce ministry data, the value of India-Russia trade stood at $65.7 billion in 2023-24, up 33 percent year on year. (Representative image) HighlightsIndia, Russia target $100 billion bilateral trade by 2030At present, India has a huge trade deficit with Russia because of crude importIndia wants to ratchet up exports to Russia to correct trade imbalanceBoth sides exploring new trade routes and settlement mechanismsThe objectives listed in the joint declaration will take time to fructifyIndia and Russia plan to lock in a tight trade embrace much the same way Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Vladimir Putin hugged each othe
 
The news published on the date July 10, 2024 02:14 PM IST with headline  Karnataka nets Rs 6,450 crore investment commitment from Japan, South Korea; to create 1,000 jobs is: 
 Karnataka Large and Medium Industries & Infrastructure Development Minister MB Patil. Karnataka Large and Medium Industries & Infrastructure Development Minister MB Patil said on July 10 that the state delegation’s visit to Japan and South Korea secured Rs 6,450 crore in investment commitments which could create more than 1,000 jobs.Ahead of Karnataka's Global Investors Meet in February 2025,a high-level delegation from Karnataka, led by Patil recently concluded a two-week visit to Japan and South Korea.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"These commitments from six major companies are projected to create over 1,000 jobs in Karnataka," said Patil."Beyond immediate commitments, the Karnataka delegation identified promising leads worth $3 billion (Rs 25,000 crore) across the automotive, electronics, and energy solutions sectors. These leads signify potential future investments and underscore Karnataka’s strategic importance as an investment destination," said Patil."During the two-week visit from June 24 to July 5, 2024, the Karnataka delegation engaged with senior leadership from leading companies and conducted investment roadshows for SMEs, highlighting Karnataka's robust manufacturing ecosystem," he said.
 
The news published on the date July 10, 2024 01:53 PM IST with headline  Industry, services added 33% more jobs between FY14 and FY23: SBI Research is: 
 Industry, services added more jobs Industry and services created 33 percent more jobs in the decade between FY14 and FY23, compared with the previous decade, according to data released by State Bank of India’s research unit on Wednesday.Industry and services created 88.9 million jobs between FY14 and FY23, up from 66.4 million in the previous decade.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe study also noted that the RBI’s KLEMS study released on July 8, is in sync with Annual Survey of Unincorporated Sector Enterprises report released last week.“If we compare, RBI KLEMS number with the recent released the factsheet of Annual Survey of Unincorporated Sector Enterprises (ASUSE) 2022-2023, it indicates the FY23 numbers are comparable and at similar level. ASUSE FY23 indicates total employment is 568 million and RBI reports 597 million,” it said.The RBI report had noted that the country added 4.7 million jobs in FY24, more than double of what it added in the previous year and the highest in four decades.
 
The news published on the date July 10, 2024 01:52 PM IST with headline  SCI, NMDC Steel at advanced stages of strategic sale, await nod from PMO is: 
 SCI, NMDC Steel at advanced stages of strategic sale, await nod from PMO The government's disinvestment agenda is very much on, if at an unsteady pace, according to a senior government official. Some public sector undertakings (PSUs) are at an advanced stage of strategic sale but are awaiting the nod from the top political levels, the official said.While the government has decided to not set divestment targets to chase in the budget, DIPAM, or the finance ministry's Department of Investment and Public Asset Management is hoping to push through strategic sales in companies like Shipping Corporation of India (SCI) and NMDC Steel Limited (NSL).Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“NMDC Steel's strategic sale is at an advanced stage. All the work is done, only financial bids need to be invited. It’s a ripe case for privatisation. The government can do it but without a go-ahead from the PMO (Prime Minister's Office) nothing will happen. There is uncertainty,” the official told Moneycontrol on condition of anonymity.The NSL divestment is fraught with political challenges. Workers’ unions have been opposed to the move. The company employs 5,887 people and has Rs 36,929 crore of assets.Interestingly, home minister Amit Shah at an October 19, 2023, election meeting in Chhattisgarh's Bastar region said that the Nagarnar steel plant in the area would not be privatised. This is important since the steel plant is the bedrock of NSL, which was spun out of NMDC as a separate company to operate the 3 million tonnes per annum facility. NSL was listed on the BSE in February 2023. “Now the go-ahead has to come from top whether the plant will be commissioned to run or privatised,” the official said.
 
The news published on the date July 10, 2024 12:26 PM IST with headline  Official employment data masks India's jobs problem, say economists
 
The news published on the date July 10, 2024 09:16 AM IST with headline  India inflation seen up in June due to soaring vegetable prices: Poll is: 
 India inflation seen up in June due to soaring vegetable prices: Poll India consumer price inflation probably edged up in June, snapping five months of declines, largely because of a jump in vegetable prices caused by the damage to crops wrought by extreme weather, according to a Reuters poll of economists.Prices of tomatoes, onions, and potatoes - staples in every Indian kitchen - surged by double digits last month as extreme heat and heavy floods in India's northern states disrupted agricultural production.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe July 5-9 Reuters poll of 54 economists forecast consumer price inflation rose to 4.80% last month on a year earlier, up from 4.75% in May. Food accounts for around half the overall CPI basket.Forecasts for the data, due on July 12 at 1200 GMT, ranged from 4.10% to 5.19%."A sharp spike in vegetable prices along with cereals and pulses kept food inflation at higher levels and nullified the softness in eggs, fruits, and spices prices," said Kanika Pasricha, chief economic advisor at Union Bank of India.
 
The news published on the date July 10, 2024 08:51 AM IST with headline  Trade opportunity knocks at India’s door is: 
 Representative image HighlightsUNCTAD’s July update on global trade speaks of an uptickThe UN report is in sync with WTO findingsIndia, along with the US and China, is a major driver of trade growthIndia’s goods exports in April-May this year have shown an uptrendHowever, India’s trade deficit is wideningThe momentum in global trade pickup could be fragileIndia should leverage the current trend to export more goodsGlobal goods trade is on the mend for now — back-to-back updates by two intergovernmenta
 
The news published on the date July 09, 2024 08:23 PM IST with headline  Poonam Gupta appointed as convenor of 5-member Advisory Council to 16th Finance Commission is: 
 16th Finance Commission The Sixteenth Finance Commission has constituted a 5-member Advisory Council including, Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister (EAC-PM) part-time member Neelkanth Mishra, National Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER) Director General Poonam Gupta and Ernst and Young Chief Policy Advisor DK Srivastava.Gupta will be the Convenor of the Advisory Council, the Finance Ministry said in a statement on July 9.Story continues below AdvertisementThe other members in the advisory council are HSBC Securities & Capital Markets (India) Private Limited Chief India Economist Pranjul Bhandari and Barclays Investment Bank Head of emerging markets Asia Rahul Bajoria.“The Advisory Council will help broaden the sixteenth Finance Commission's ambit and understanding by seeking the best national and international practices on matters pertaining to fiscal devolution and improving the quality, reach, and enforcement of its recommendations,” it said. It will also assist in the preparation of papers or research studies and to monitor or assess studies commissioned by the Finance Commission, thereby enhancing the Commission's understanding of the issues, it added
 
The news published on the date July 09, 2024 07:29 PM IST with headline  S&P 500, Nasdaq open at fresh record highs; Powell testimony awaited is: 
 S&P 500, Nasdaq open at fresh record highs; Powell testimony awaited The Nasdaq and the S&P 500 opened at record levels on Tuesday, supported by new gains in semiconductor and megacap technology stocks, as investors awaited comments from Federal Reserve chair Jerome Powell for clues on the central bank's monetary policy path.At 9:34 a.m. ET, Dow e-minis were down 58 points, or 0.15%, S&P 500 e-minis were up 13.75 points, or 0.24%, and Nasdaq 100 e-minis were up 102.75 points, or 0.5
 
The news published on the date July 09, 2024 07:22 PM IST with headline  How stocks became the game that record numbers of Americans are playing is: 
 How stocks became the game that record numbers of Americans are playing Legions of retail investors flooded the stock market in 2021, eager to chase volatile “meme stocks” with strong social media followings and weak financials. This passion to own a piece of companies such as GameStop Corp. and AMC Entertainment Holdings Inc. seemed like a fever that was sure to break. Fueled by pandemic stimulus checks and pre-vaccine boredom, newbie traders had nothing better to do than funnel their cash into shares championed by internet investing gurus including Keith Gill and Ryan Cohen.Flash-forward three years, and it’s abundantly clear: We’re living in a new age of finance. It’s never been easier to bet your money—anytime, anywhere—and meme-stock craziness is here to stay. A wave of technological advancements has coincided with new apps and platforms to create a thriving ecosystem where everyday people can trade stocks with the ease of swiping for dates on Tinder.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad Retail traders as a share of US equity volumeYoung people can open a trading account in minutes. Members of Generation Z start investing when they’re 19, on average, according to a Charles Schwab Corp. survey released in June. That compares with 32 for Gen X and 35 for baby boomers. Schwab also found that almost 3 in 5 Americans today are investing in stocks. Federal Reserve data show this proportion represents the highest on record.Retail investors have plenty of ways to play once-exotic and out-of-reach markets. Exchange-traded funds that invest in Bitcoin premiered this year, and a boom in zero-day options—a turbocharged version that allows traders to make rapid and risky bets on price moves—has taken the retail community by storm.
 
The news published on the date July 09, 2024 05:27 PM IST with headline  Modi-Putin meet: India needs a solution for the ballooning trade gap with Russia is: 
 Prime Minister Narendra Modi with Russian president Vladimir Putin Amid Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Russia, the focus is on India's widening trade deficit with that nation along with the geopolitical situation.Modi landed in Russia on July 8 for a two-day visit, a first since Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine in February 2022.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdModi and Russian President Vladimir Putin are expected to discuss an array of topics about current regional and global issues of mutual concern during the bilateral meeting.Moneycontrol takes a look at trade relations between the two nations that stood at $65.69 billion in FY24, registering a growth of 33.1 percent on-year.Trade gap
 
The news published on the date July 08, 2024 06:48 PM IST with headline  Indian tourists future growth engine for global tourism: OECD is: 
 India growth driver for tourism Indian tourists are emerging as a future growth engine for global tourism, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development said in its Tourism Trends and Policies 2024 report released on July 8.“Outbound travel from India is emerging as a future growth engine for global tourism, with the rapid expansion of the middle classes and scaling up of air connectivity across the country,” the grouping of 38 high-income countries noted.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdDespite a pick-up from the pandemic years, tourist arrivals in OECD economies have not recovered to pre-pandemic levels. Tourist arrivals were down 23 percent in 2022 compared with 2019 levels.Globally, tourist arrivals are likely to exceed pre-pandemic levels in 2024, the report said. In 2023, global tourist arrivals were 89 percent of pre-pandemic level.“International tourist arrivals exceeded pre-pandemic levels in some OECD countries in 2023, with countries in Europe leading the way. Portugal welcomed a record 19.4 million international tourists, 12.1% more than in 2019,” it said.
 
The news published on the date July 08, 2024 06:23 PM IST with headline  India's informal sector surges post-pandemic: 9% increase in firms, Rs 2 lakh crore output boost is: 
 Informal firms' output was up 15% in 2022-23 India's informal sector grew post-pandemic, with Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, and Chhattisgarh logging big output gains in fiscal 2022-23.The number of informal firms in India increased 9 percent to 65 million in 2022-23 from 59.7 million in 2022-21, according to the Annual Survey of Unincorporated Sector Enterprises data released by the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation. The output from non-agricultural firms also showed an increase of Rs 2 lakh crore, or 15 percent, to Rs 15.5 lakh crore in FY23 over the previous year.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAndhra Pradesh, Bihar, and Chhattisgarh emerged as the frontrunners in this growth, witnessing high double-digit gains in output within a year, thereby leading the additions to total output.In Chhattisgarh, the output of informal firms was up 80 percent from the previous year, as the state added 20 percent more units and output per establishment went up nearly 50 percent.In Andhra Pradesh, the output increased by 40 percent, as the number of units increased by a tenth during this period.
 
The news published on the date July 08, 2024 04:39 PM IST with headline  India employment provisionally grew at 6% in FY24 vs 3.2% in FY23, shows RBI data is: 
 People walk on Kartavya Path, earlier known as Rajpath India provisionally created 46.7 million jobs in the financial year ended March 2024, taking the country's total employment to 643.3 million, a Reserve Bank of India report showed on Monday.The country's employment growth rate stood at 6% in that fiscal year, versus 3.2% in the previous fiscal year, the RBI's report on measuring industry level productivity and employment showed.Story continues below AdvertisementThe report, a routine release from the central bank, has traditionally only shown historical numbers. On Monday, however, the central bank said it is attempting a provisional estimate of productivity for the total economy for the first time for the financial year 2023/24 based on available information.The release of the data follows a Citibank report last week which said growth of close to 7% will only create 8 million to 9 million jobs in India, short of the 11 million to 12 million needed."Even 7% GDP growth might not be able to fulfil the job requirement over the next decade," Citi's chief India economist Samiran Chakraborty wrote in the note.In a separate statement, the federal labour department too countered Citi's report to say its estimates suggest an average of over 20 million employment opportunities per year were created between 2017-18 to 2021-22
 
The news published on the date July 08, 2024 02:38 PM IST with headline  India re-opens application window for PLI scheme for white goods is: 
 The Union Cabinet had given approval for the PLI Scheme for White Goods for manufacture of components and sub-assemblies of Air Conditioners (ACs) and LED Lights in April 2021 The Indian government has reopened application window for the product-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for white goods (ACs and LED Lights) for 90 days starting July 15,2024 to 12 October, 2024.The application window was reopened 'based on the appetite of the industry to invest more under the scheme, which is an outcome of the growing market and confidence generated due to manufacturing of key components of ACs and LED Lights in India," the government said in a statement.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe portal to apply is online is https://pliwhitegoods.ifciltd.com/. No application shall be accepted after the closure of the application window.So far, 66 applicants have applied to the PLI scheme with an investment to the tune of Rs 6,962 crore. For manufacturing components of Air conditioners (ACs) companies like Daikin, Voltas, Hindalco, Amber, Pg Technoplast, Epack, Mettube, LG, Blue Star, Johnson Hitachi, Panasonic, Haier, Midea, Havells, IFB, NIDEC, Lucas, Swaminathan, and Triton Valves Etc. have invested. Similarly, in manufacturing components of LED lights, companies like Dixon, R K Lighting, Radhika Opto, Surya, Orient, Signify, Crompton Greaves, Stove Kraft, Cosmo Films, Halonix, Chenfeng, Fulham, Adsun, Inventronix and LukeR etc. have invested."These investments will lead to manufacturing of components of Air Conditioners and LED Lights across the complete value chain including components which are not manufactured in India presently with sufficient quantity," it added.
 
The news published on the date July 08, 2024 02:05 PM IST with headline  India's tea prices soar as extreme weather slashes output is: 
 India's tea prices soar as extreme weather slashes output India's tea prices have been soaring and are expected to stay high as heatwaves and floods during the peak harvesting season slash output in key producing regions.The price rise could support the beleaguered Indian tea industry, which has been struggling with rising production costs amid a negligible rise in tea prices in the past decade.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Extreme weather events are hurting tea production. Excessive heat in May, followed by ongoing flooding in Assam, are reducing output," said Prabhat Bezboruah, a senior tea planter and former chairman of India's Tea Board.Production was also affected by the government's decision to ban 20 pesticides, Bezboruah said.India's tea production in May plunged more than 30% from a year earlier to 90.92 million kg, its lowest for that month in more than a decade, hurt by excessive heat and scant rainfall.
 
The news published on the date July 08, 2024 12:39 PM IST with headline  The US economic slowdown is looking more threatening is: 
 US economy On the surface, the US employment report for June looked pretty good. Some 206,000 jobs were added, which exceeded the 190,000 median estimate of more than five dozen economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Also, wage growth continued to moderate, easing concern that fast-rising earnings would underpin inflation. But peel back the curtains and you can clearly see why so many are worried the soft patch that the economy seems to have run into may get even softer — or worse.The best place to start is with the revisions to recent monthly labour data. The Labor Department said 111,000 fewer jobs were created in April and May than originally reported. What that means is that monthly payrolls expanded by an average of 177,000 in the second quarter, down from 267,000 in the first three months of the year.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdDigging a little deeper we find that the median time it takes for an unemployed worker to find a job rose to 9.8 weeks, the most since February 2022, according to Bloomberg News. On top of that, the number of temporary employees on payrolls tumbled by 48,900 in June, the most since April 2021. The takeaway here is that employers have little need for extra help because they see business demand softening. Those two data points help explain why continuing claims for unemployment applications, a proxy for the number of people receiving jobless benefits from the government, increased to 1.86 million in the week ended June 22, the highest since November 2021.There are lots of caveats here. Although the unemployment rate ticked above 4% for the first time since November 2021, coming in at 4.1%, it’s mostly rising for the right reasons. In other words, the gain is not so much due to companies laying off workers, but rather an expansion in the labour force. This is allowing employers to become more picky when hiring workers and helping to slow the gains in wages that have helped underpin inflation.Even so, it’s hard to avoid being concerned that the economy is in the midst of a sharp slowdown. Within the last two weeks alone, we have seen disappointing data from both the ISM manufacturing and services indexes, as well as big declines in new home sales and pending home sales that exceeded economists’ estimates. In fact, the numbers have been disappointing to a degree not seen since 2014, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In response, the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta’s widely followed GDPNow Index, which aims to track growth in real time, has dropped to 1.55%, the lowest reading since December and down from above 4% as recently as May.
 
The news published on the date July 08, 2024 12:38 PM IST with headline  Fewer women join better paying formal jobs in FY24, gig works see record rush is: 
 Low paying jobs record higehst growth for women The ratio of women joining better-paying formal jobs hit a three-year low in FY24, even as their participation in low-paying jobs scaled a seven-year high, according to a Moneycontrol analysis.The proportion of women enrolled in the Employees' Provident Fund (EPF) scheme declined to 19.6 percent in FY24 from 20.7 percent a year back and 21.4 percent in FY22. The ratio had dipped to 18.1 percent during the pandemic.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdNew enrollments under the less remunerative Employees' State Insurance Corporation, on the other hand, surged 21 percent as against a 19.6 percent rise a year ago.ESIC caters to lower-paying jobs and applies to establishments with more than 10 workers.
 
The news published on the date July 08, 2024 12:15 PM IST with headline  Jobs, rural India likely to be focus of new Modi government's first budget, says Goldman Sachs is: 
 Jobs, rural India likely to be focus of new Modi government's first budget, says Goldman Sachs The first budget by Prime Minister Narendra Modi's new government may tilt towards, but not pivot to welfare spending, with a focus on rural economy and job creation, economists at Goldman Sachs said in a note on Monday.The budget proposal for the financial year ending March 2025 will be presented on July 23, the government said over the weekend.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdGoldman economists expect the government to stick to its fiscal deficit target of 5.1% of GDP set in the interim budget but said it will likely make an "overarching statement" about long-term economic policy."We see an emphasis on job creation through labor-intensive manufacturing, credit for micro, small and medium enterprises, continued focus on services exports by expanding global capability centres, and a thrust on domestic food supply chain," Santanu Sengupta, chief India economist at the Wall Street bank wrote.Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party failed to win a majority on its own in national elections this year and returned to power with the help of allies. Post-poll surveys showed that unemployment and inflation were key concerns among votes, particularly outside of urban areas.
 
The news published on the date July 08, 2024 11:38 AM IST with headline  Mohamed El-Erian: What the Federal Reserve should put on the Jackson Hole agenda is: 
 Federal Reserve The writer is president of Queens’ College, Cambridge, and an adviser to Allianz and GramercyRemember the Asian financial crisis, the shock from the LTCM hedge fund blow-up, the Russian debt default and the Lehman collapse? They all came to a boil during summer.Yet when there are fewer financial fires to be put out, central banks have found the season to be a good time to take stock of where their policies stand and where they would lik
 
The news published on the date July 08, 2024 08:48 AM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Market Outlook | Market enters earnings season with strong momentum is: 
 While market breadth may not remain as strong as it has been, we expect the uptrend to continue unless we see a reversal in price action. Indian markets continued to trade higher despite increased volatility throughout the week. Global markets supported the bullish sentiment, leading to broader markets in India outperforming the benchmark index
 
The news published on the date July 04, 2024 02:00 PM IST with headline  Onion price surge prompts Centre to work out preemptive steps: Reports is: 
 Most of North India’s onions come from the Nashik, Pune, and Ahmednagar regions. The government is likely to take some preemptive measures to prevent onion prices from simmering like last year.A supply shortage from Nashik, the main production hub for the crop in India, has prompted the government to review the stock limits and make some declarations, an official who attended a meeting on issue told business daily Mint. Although the situation is not critical yet, the government is keen to avoid a potential shortfall and price hikes, the Mint reported.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdDespite a robust harvest, fewer onion trucks are arriving at Delhi’s Azadpur mandi, the country's largest vegetable wholesale market, raising concerns about possible price spikes in the coming weeks. The Mint report, quoting an official speaking on condition of anonymity, mentioned that if the supply shortage persists, the government may ask traders to declare their stocks, followed by the imposition of stock limits if necessary. These discussions are still in their early stages, with decisions to be made based on future developments.Also Read | Govt procures 71,000 tonnes of onion for buffer stock, retail prices to ease: ReportMost of North India’s onions come from the Nashik, Pune and Ahmednagar regions. A prolonged supply shortage could drive up prices, an outcome the government is determined to avoid, especially with several Assembly elections approaching. High onion prices have historically influenced the voting behaviour, the report added.
 
The news published on the date July 04, 2024 11:44 AM IST with headline  Government plans 50% boost to rural housing subsidies in Budget 2024: Report is: 
 Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is expected to unveil the detailed plan in the budget later this month. The government is likely to increase subsidies on rural housing in the upcoming Budget 2024 by up to 50 percent from the previous year to more than $6.5 billion, news agency Reuters has said.The move comes amid rural distress, spurred by higher food inflation and sluggish growth in farmers' incomes, the report cited sources as saying.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIf approved, the increase would mark the largest annual rise in Centre’s spending on the rural housing programme since its inception in 2016.Moneycontrol could not verify the report independently.The government aims to enhance spending on rural infrastructure, including village roads and a jobs programmes to assist millions of youth employed in agriculture due to limited manufacturing opportunities, the report added.Also Read | Budget 2024: Middle-class housing scheme to follow interest subvention modelShares of Housing and Urban Development Corp surged up to 9 percent in response to the report, while Aadhar Housing Finance and GIC Housing Finance also saw gains of around 4.5 percent.Under the PM Awas Yojana (Rural) housing scheme, the government targets constructing an additional 20 million houses in the coming years, supplementing aid provided for over 26 million homes for poor households in the past eight years, the report said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read | Budget 2024: Microfinance industry seeks special funding, tax relief on affordable housingFinance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is expected to unveil the detailed plan during the budget, which is to be presented later this month.Economists and industry leaders have advocated for increased rural spending to boost consumer demand, particularly as private consumption lags behind economic growth.Sources indicated that the subsidies for rural housing could exceed 550 billion rupees ($6.58 billion), up from 320 billion rupees last fiscal year.Also Read | The finance ministry declined to comment on the spending plans when approached by Reuters.The rural development ministry proposes to raise subsidies for housing units to about Rs 2 lakh ($2,395) per unit, up from Rs 1.2 lakh, citing rising raw material costs
 
The news published on the date July 04, 2024 08:52 AM IST with headline  PM Modi’s budget to send India’s soaring stocks higher, survey says is: 
 PM Modi’s budget to send India’s soaring stocks higher, survey says India’s $5 trillion stock market stands to gain as much as 20% for the entire year, buoyed by government spending and continued momentum in corporate earnings, according to market watchers.The upcoming government budget will likely boost consumer spending and infrastructure building, which bode well for businesses, strategists and investors surveyed by Bloomberg said. More than half of the 24 respondents estimated that the NSE Nifty 50 Index may advance up to 26,000 points by the end of 2024, while one predicted the gauge can climb even more.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe benchmark index has risen 12% so far this year to a record.A diminished majority for Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party in the recent elections has prompted investors to raise bets in the consumer sector on expectations the government will shift toward more populist measures to shore up support. An early monsoon also boosted the prospects for companies involved with crops such as rice, corn and soybeans.“Corporate earnings for the year gone by had been robust on the back of margin tailwinds and may grow above trend in financial year 2025, keeping India’s medium-term growth story intact,” said Bino Pathiparampil, head of research at Mumbai-based Elara Capital.
 
The news published on the date July 04, 2024 08:29 AM IST with headline  India's solar output grows at slowest pace in six years in first half of 2024 is: 
 India's solar output grows at slowest pace in six years in first half of 2024 India's solar power generation grew at the slowest pace in six years in the first half of 2024, an analysis of data from the federal grid regulator showed, as the country further stepped up reliance on coal to address surging power demand.Electricity generated from coal grew 10.4% during six months ended June 30, a review of daily load despatch data from Grid-India showed, outpacing overall power generation growth of 9.7% during the period.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSolar power generation in the third-largest producer of electricity from the sun rose to 63.6 billion kilowatt-hours (kWh) in the first half of 2024, the data showed, up 14.7% compared with the same period last year and 18.5% in the calendar year 2023.The world's fastest growing major economy has prioritised coal to address a surge in power demand in recent years, with coal-fired power output last year outpacing renewable energy output for the first time since the Paris accord in 2015.The south Asian nation's fuel use patterns since emerging from the COVID-19 pandemic have largely been in line with trends in the region, with Indonesia, Philippines, Vietnam and Bangladesh all firing up coal for generating inexpensive power.
 
The news published on the date July 03, 2024 08:29 PM IST with headline  Heavy industries and steel minister requests plan for Vizag Steel revival is: 
 In his review meeting with the board of the public sector enterprise, Kumaraswamy instructed Vizag Steel officials to increase steel production to get out of the financial rut Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × Heavy Industries and Steel Minister HD Kumaraswamy reviewed the progress of Vizag Steel on July 3, noting that the ministry would work out a plan to infuse funds once the company works towards increasing production and capacity.Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, or Vizag Steel, is run by the corporate entity Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe minister also requested a comprehensive plan to revive the struggling entity.In his meeting with the board of the public sector enterprise, Kumaraswamy instructed the officials to increase steel production to get out of the financial rut.India has set a target of producing 300 million tonnes of steel annually.
 
The news published on the date July 03, 2024 06:26 PM IST with headline  US weekly jobless claims rise labor market slows is: 
 US weekly jobless claims rise labor market slows The number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits increased last week, pointing to easing labor market conditions.Initial claims for state unemployment benefits rose 4,000 to a seasonally adjusted 238,000 for the week ended June 29, the Labor Department said on Wednesday. The report was released a day early because of the Independence Day holiday on Thursday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEconomists polled by Reuters had forecast 235,000 claims in the latest week.Claims have moved to the upper end of their 194,000-243,000 range of this year, in part because of a rise in layoffs as higher interest rates dampen demand as well as difficulties adjusting the data for seasonal fluctuations during holidays.Volatility could persist after the July 4 holiday. Auto manufacturers typically idle assembly plants for retooling in the summer, but the timing is uncertain.
 
The news published on the date July 03, 2024 04:57 PM IST with headline  Can’t find a job after graduating? Move to Bolivia is: 
 If the job market seems impenetrable, take the foot-in-the-door job that no one else wants. It’s a challenging time to be a college graduate entering the labour force. Outside of the early pandemic months, the ratio of new hires to total employees is near the lowest in the past decade. Many companies recruited too heavily during the frenzied pandemic economy, and now they’ve slowed hiring, particularly in well-paying fields such as finance and technology.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhile companies aren’t firing many people, it’s clearly getting tougher to be on the outside of the labour market looking in, especially as a college graduate with high expectations and little concrete experience. On Handshake, a search platform for college students, internship listings were down more than 7% in the past 12 months compared with the same period the previous year. Each internship received an average of 93 applications, up from 53 the previous year, according to a Handshake analysis provided to Bloomberg News’ Jo Constantz. Business Insider reported that Goldman Sachs Group Inc. received 315,126 applicants for just 2,700 summer internship spots, a record-low 0.9% acceptance rate that makes it significantly more selective than, for instance, Harvard University.Instead of despairing, recent grads and rising seniors can improve their employment prospects by staying open-minded and nimble.Consider my experience in the late aughts. After working as a paralegal and toying with law school, I started seriously looking for a journalism job around the time the US was entering a recession in 2008 — an infamously bad labour market. When an acquaintance of a guy who knew another guy in my alumni network told me that Bloomberg News was looking for a freelance economics and government reporter in La Paz, Bolivia, I took it — basically because it sounded like a cool adventure. (I had just intermediate Spanish and had never been to the coup-prone Andean nation, but I got the impression that there weren’t many other applicants.) Within 18 months, it led to a full-time job in Mexico City; another job writing about big M&A deals in Brazil; a management position in Miami; and, ultimately, the gig writing this column.
 
The news published on the date July 03, 2024 04:37 PM IST with headline  Crypto exchange CoinDCX acquires Dubai's BitOasis is: 
 Crypto exchange CoinDCX acquires Dubai's BitOasis India-based crypto exchange CoinDCX COIN.NS has acquired Middle East-focused crypto platform BitOasis, the two companies said in a joint statement on Wednesday.The firms did not disclose the transaction value, but BitOasis said in a separate statement that CoinDCX, which had already acquired a stake in the business last year, now owns the full share capital of the Dubai-based company.Story continues below AdvertisementBitOasis added that the brand and leadership team would remain unchanged following the deal, which is set to help the firm strengthen its position in the region - where it serves 15 countries - and enhance its services.The United Arab Emirates is aiming to become a global centre for the crypto industry and Dubai, considered the Gulf's tourism and business hub, set up watchdog VARA in 2022 to regulate the emerging virtual asset sector.Founded in 2016, BitOasis provides broker-dealer services to qualified retail and institutional investors under its minimum viable product (MVP) operational licence provided by VARA. It recently obtained a similar licence from the Central Bank of Bahrain
 
The news published on the date July 03, 2024 04:13 PM IST with headline  Rupee falls 4 paise to close at 83.52 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee falls 4 paise to close at 83.52 against US dollar The rupee depreciated 4 paise to settle at 83.52 (provisional) against the US dollar on Wednesday, weighed down by elevated crude oil prices.Forex traders said the Indian rupee depreciated on strength in crude oil prices, which touched a two-week high on Tuesday. However, a firm tone in domestic markets and favourable macroeconomic data cushioned the downside.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 83.51 and hit the intraday high of 83.49 and a low of 83.56 against the American currency during the session.It finally settled at 83.52 (provisional) against the dollar, 4 paise lower than its previous close.On Tuesday, the rupee depreciated 4 paise to settle at 83.48 against the US dollar."We expect the rupee to trade with a slight positive bias on softening of the US dollar and rise in global risk sentiments. Strength in the domestic markets may also support sentiments," said Anuj Choudhary, Research Analyst at Sharekhan by BNP Paribas "However, elevated crude oil price and FII outflows may cap sharp upside. Traders may take cues from ADP non-farm employment, weekly unemployment claims, ISM services PMI, Challenger job cuts, trade balance and factory orders data from the US. Investors may remain cautious ahead of FOMC meeting minutes," Choudhary said.Meanwhile, the dollar index, which gauges the greenback's strength against a basket of six currencies, was trading 0.10 per cent lower at 105.61.Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, were trading 0.09 per cent higher at USD 86.32 per barrel.Story continues below AdvertisementIn the domestic equity market, Sensex hit the historic 80,000-mark and Nifty scaled a fresh lifetime high. The 30-share BSE Sensex finally ended the day 545.35 points, or 0.69 per cent, up at 79,986.80 points. The broader NSE Nifty settled 162.65 points, or 0.67 per cent, higher at 24,286.50 points.Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital markets on Tuesday, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 2,000.12 crore, according to exchange data.On the domestic macroeconomic front, India's services sector growth quickened in June from May's five-month low.The seasonally adjusted HSBC India Services Business Activity Index rose from 60.2 in May to 60.5 in June, pointing to a sharp expansion in output
 
The news published on the date July 03, 2024 02:13 PM IST with headline  India could grow over 8% if it resolves infra bottlenecks: S&P analyst is: 
 GDP growth could be higher The Indian economy could grow by over 8 percent without overheating if it resolves infrastructural bottlenecks, YeePharn Phua, Director of sovereign ratings, S&P Global Ratings, said on Wednesday.“This will help expand the middle class and help attract more investments to the economy,” he highlighted.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdS&P Global Ratings expects the Indian economy to grow 7 percent over the medium term. For the current fiscal year, the global rating agency forecasts a growth of 6.8 percent.“India is recouping some of the lost ground, growing faster than what we had expected four years ago,” said Luis Kuijs, Chief Economist, Asia Pacific, at S&P Global Ratings.Phua pointed out that a rating upgrade for the economy was contingent upon the general government fiscal deficit falling below 7 percent of the GDP.
 
The news published on the date July 02, 2024 09:15 AM IST with headline  Manufacturers boost inventory by 20% in expectation of busy festival season: Report is: 
 The Meteorological Department's prediction of an above-normal monsoon has further bolstered expectations, with hopes for improved agricultural output and rural incomes contributing to overall economic growth. Manufacturers of smartphones, refrigerators, wearables and two-wheelers are increasing their inventory by up to 20 percent from the previous year in expectation of a busy festival season, The Economic Times has reported.The move comes as industry players anticipate a strong demand recovery, buoyed by favourable factors such as a promising monsoon and stable inflation.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdKamal Nandi, business head at Godrej Appliances, said there is pent-up demand in rural India which would be unleashed with the onset of the monsoon.Rural consumers have been relatively restrained in spending over the past five years, particularly since the onset of Covid-19, while urban areas continue to witness a robust trend towards premium products, Nandi said.Most companies are gearing up to operate at full production capacity starting July, with preparations underway for the festival season, beginning with Onam in September.
 
The news published on the date July 02, 2024 09:39 AM IST with headline  Bank for International Settlements on what could go wrong for the global economy is: 
 On balance, globally, inflation is continuing to decline towards targets, economic activity and the financial system have proved remarkably resilient HighlightsThe BIS’s base case is a smooth landingBut it flags risks both to inflation and growthInflation in services, if it reverts to pre-pandemic trends, could result in higher overall inflationWage pressures too could riseFiscal pressures, low productivity growth could also lead to higher inflationAs excess savings run out, growth could taper and financial stress riseThe report highlights potential risks from commercial real estate and private credit marketsBoth monetary and fiscal policy should be conservativePerhaps the best descriptio
 
The news published on the date July 01, 2024 10:49 PM IST with headline  Govt hikes windfall tax on crude oil to Rs 6,000 per tonne from Rs 3,250 is: 
 The Indian government has raised the windfall tax on petroleum crude to 6,000 rupees ($71.91) per metric ton from 3,250 rupees, with effect from July 2, according to a notification issued on Monday. The Indian government has raised the windfall tax on petroleum crude to 6,000 rupees per metric ton from 3,250 rupees, with effect from July 2, according to a notification issued on Monday. The Special Additional Excise Duty (SAED) on the export of diesel, petrol, and ATF is to continue at nil.Earlier on June 15, the government has reduced windfall tax on domestically-produced crude oil to Rs 3,250 per tonne from Rs 5,200. The tax is levied in the form of Special Additional Excise Duty (SAED).Story continues below AdvertisementIndia first imposed windfall profit taxes on July 1, 2022, joining a host of nations that tax supernormal profits of energy companies. The tax rates are reviewed every fortnight based on average oil prices in the previous two weeks
 
The news published on the date July 01, 2024 08:43 PM IST with headline  Economy humming in Q1FY25, shows data is: 
 For the quarter, GST collections at Rs 5.57 lakh crore were 10.2 percent higher during Q1FY24. High-frequency data for June, released on July 1, showed that the economy will likely keep growing over 7 percent for a fifth consecutive quarter in Q1FY25.“Available high-frequency data for the first quarter of 2024-25 indicate that the Indian economy is well on its way to meeting RBI’s GDP growth projection of 7.3 percent for Q1 of 2024-25,” said DK Srivastava, chief policy advisor, EY India.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSources told Moneycontrol that GST collections likely surged eight percent in June to Rs 1.74 lakh crore, while manufacturing activity picked up after falling to a three-month in the previous month.For the quarter, GST collections at Rs 5.57 lakh crore were 10.2 percent higher during Q1FY24.“The June 2024 GST collection of Rs 1.74 lakh crore is a strong indicator of a booming domestic consumption sector. This marks an impressive four-month streak where collections have exceeded Rs 1.5 lakh crore, bringing the year-to-date total to a remarkable Rs 5.57 crore,” said Saurabh Agarwal, tax partner, EY India.
 
The news published on the date July 01, 2024 07:36 PM IST with headline  GST collections rise nearly 8% YoY to Rs 1.74 lakh crore in June: Sources is: 
 India’s goods and services tax (GST) collections rose 7.7 percent to Rs 1.74 lakh crore in June as compared to Rs 1.73 lakh crore in May, sources told Moneycontrol on July 1.The numbers were a tad higher than the previous month but lower than the GST mop-up in April, when it had peaked at Rs 2.1 lakh crore.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe collections totalled Rs 5.57 lakh crore in the first quarter of the year, averaging Rs 1.86 lakh crore per month.GST collections averaged Rs 1.68 lakh crore in FY24.
 
The news published on the date July 01, 2024 06:23 PM IST with headline  Surge in e-way bills generation suggests robust economic growth: FinMin is: 
 In FY24, the e-way bills generated jumped to Rs 110.11 crore from Rs 94.42 crore in FY22. The Union ministry of finance on July 1 said the number of e-way bills generated in the last financial year had recorded a 16 percent growth over FY23, indicating a robust economic growth.In FY24, the e-way bills generated jumped to Rs 110.11 crore from Rs 94.42 crore in FY22.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“Upsurge in e-Way Bills generation indicates #Sustainable and robust economic growth in #7yearsofGST,” the ministry said in a post on X.Upsurge in e-Way Bills generation indicates #Sustainable and robust economic growth in #7yearsofGST. pic.twitter.com/o1NBbhlW06— Ministry of Finance (@FinMinIndia) July 1, 2024The goods and services tax regime completed seven years on July 1 and the ministry posted a series of posts highlighting “reduction in compliance burden” for various taxpayers.
 
The news published on the date July 01, 2024 06:12 PM IST with headline  India panel urges drug regulator to approve Lilly's obesity drug Mounjaro is: 
 A pharmacist displays a box of Mounjaro, a tirzepatide injection drug used for treating type 2 diabetes made by Lilly at Rock Canyon Pharmacy in Provo An Indian government-approved expert panel has advised the country's drug regulator to approve the import and sale of U.S. drugmaker Eli Lilly's Mounjaro, a blockbuster diabetes drug and a wildly popular obesity treatment, a document on a government website showed on Monday.Lilly's Mounjaro, chemically known as tirzepatide, and Zepbound and Danish rival Novo Nordisk's Wegovy and Ozempic belong to a class of therapies known as GLP-1 receptor agonists, developed to control blood sugar in patients with type 2 diabetes.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThey also slow digestion, helping patients feel full longer, making them a wildly popular choice for weight loss."After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended for grant of permission for import and marketing" of certain doses of tirzepatide "for chronic weight management subject to the condition that firm should conduct Phase 4 clinical trial (post-marketing surveillance)," the Subject Expert Committee said in a notification dated June 19.The committee advises India's drug regulator on approvals of drugs and trials.
 
The news published on the date July 01, 2024 04:13 PM IST with headline  UPI transactions value in June stays above Rs 20 lakh crore for the second month running is: 
 UPI volumes rise further in June The value of UPI transactions remained above Rs 20 lakh crore for the second consecutive month, as average daily transactions rose further in the month, according to data released by National Payments Corporation of India on July 1.The average daily transaction volume was higher at 463 million compared with 453 million in the previous month, while the value of transactions soared to Rs 66,903 crore compared with RS 65,966 crore in May.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe volume of transactions on the digital payments service was 13.89 million in June compared with 14.04 million in the previous month.Over the year, digital transactions continued to exhibit phenomenal growth of 49 percent in volumes and 36 percent in value.
 
The news published on the date July 01, 2024 05:42 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | China’s shadow on global manufacturing refuses to shorten is: 
 Applying the screws to imports will hurt a significant part of the economy, something the government may not want to do Dear Reader,Rising steel imports appear to have caught the government’s attention. India’s steel and trade ministries are in talks over the issue, according to a Reuters report, due to rising imports of steel, particularly from China. India’s steel companies have been demanding higher tariffs, according to the report, to protect domestic price realisations.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhat’s more, the government has two considerations to evaluate. While steel producers may feel the pressure from imports, steel buyers such as automobiles, real estate and infrastructure/construction businesses are happy under these circumstances. Applying the screws to imports will hurt a significant part of the economy, something the government may not want to do.But this problem may not just be restricted to steel but a number of other commodities and is tied to the surpluses generated by China’s companies. The government’s quandary in tackling this with an iron hand can be understood from this article by Manas Chakravarty.He has pored through the Bank of International Settlements’ (BIS) Annual Economic Report to uncover this gem of an insight — rising imports from China have led to inflation coming down in many countries. India is one of the countries mentioned and it also benefits more because it is a commodity importer and lower growth in China has kept prices in check. What’s more, while rising imports have caused disinflation, since India is a domestic-focused economy, companies have not been hurt much by falling export realisations.
 
The news published on the date July 01, 2024 02:10 PM IST with headline  7 years of GST: A revenue boost for Centre and States is: 
 Seven years of GST The Goods and Services Tax regime completed seven years of implementation on Monday. Besides standardising most tax rates across the country, GST has delivered gains in terms of higher tax revenues, according to experts.Monthly collections under the regime have doubled to average over Rs 1.8 lakh crore over the last three months, compared with Rs 89,884 crore in the first year of implementation.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA paper by the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy (NIPFP) last year in April showed that the buoyance under the GST system since its implementation on July 1, 2017, was higher than five years prior to the regime.
 
The news published on the date June 28, 2024 04:40 PM IST with headline  FATF recognises India’s efforts in mitigating money laundering, terror financing is: 
 The Paris-headquartered body leads global action to tackle money laundering, terrorist and proliferation financing. The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) in its mutual evaluation 2023-24 has recognised India for its efforts in mitigating the risks arising from money laundering and terror financing, including from corruption, which will lead to greater access to global financing and boost investor confidence, the Finance Ministry said on June 28.“FATF recognises India’s efforts to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. India has achieved an outstanding outcome in the Mutual Evaluation conducted during 2023-24 by FATF. This marks a significant milestone. Good ratings will lead to better access to global financial markets and institutions and increase investor confidence,” the ministry said in a statement.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Mutual Evaluation Report of India was adopted in the FATF plenary held in Singapore between June 26 and 28 this year. It demonstrates the overall stability and integrity of India’s financial system. It will also help in the global expansion of the Unified Payments Interface (UPI), the Finance Ministry said.“FATF recognised India’s effective measures to transition from a cash-based to a digital economy to reduce money laundering risks along with the implementation of the JAM (Jan Dhan, Aadhaar, Mobile) Trinity. Regulations on cash transactions, significant increase in financial inclusion have made transactions more traceable, thereby mitigating laundering risks,” the ministry added.India’s performance on the FATF Mutual Evaluation accrues significant advantages to our growing economy, as it demonstrates the overall stability and integrity of the financial system, it further said.
 
The news published on the date June 28, 2024 04:19 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | The sound of financial stability is: 
 - Dear Reader,Ever tried to hear the sound of raindrops during a storm? It is hard because it is drowned by the thunder of the storm. But on a simple rainy day, the sound is pleasant, even comforting. Financial stability is like the sound of raindrops, giving comfort to all the stakeholders involved, especially the regulators.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Reserve Bank of India details this comfort in its latest financial stability report by highlighting the strength of the financial system it oversees, along with other regulators. At the heart of this are banks that have delivered one of the best performances in recent years, showing off robust growth metrics as well as enviable profitability. Banks are the bedrock of financial stability in India and the RBI is pleased to reiterate their balance sheet heft and impeccable risk profile in the report. Our Chart of the Day here captures this exemplary page on banks. India’s lenders have fortified their capital ratios, their bad loan pile is at a multi-year low and return ratios are at decadal high. What’s more, banks have enough dry powder to sustain these impeccable metrics for one more year at the least.The RBI has every right to feel good about its own proactive measures that have resulted in not just a robust banking system but also an improved non-bank financial ecosystem. Granted, there are areas of concern surrounding the fintechs and retail credit, but these stress points are also quite mild, according to the RBI.But the RBI would be remiss if it did not include potential warnings that could jeopardise financial stability and challenges that must be monitored.
 
The news published on the date June 28, 2024 03:00 PM IST with headline  How much do states earn from liquor taxes? is: 
 States earning from alcohol A minister in the Odisha Cabinet on June 27 announced that the state was planning to impose a ban on liquor, but the government was quick to dismiss such reports.While four states in the country have imposed a complete ban on liquor, excise duties, which are imposed on liquor, account for a significant share of the states’ own tax revenues.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn case of Odisha, a ban on liquor may become more untenable as it earns a larger share of its own tax revenue from liquor than the national average.According to the vote-on-account presented by the previous government, Odisha is set to earn Rs 8,680 crore from alcohol revenues in FY25, which would account for 14.7 percent of the state’s own tax revenues compared with 13.8 percent share in the previous fiscal.In contrast, a Moneycontrol analysis shows that the average excise duty to own tax revenue ratio for 19 of the largest states and UTs is expected to be 13.7 percent, unchanged from revised estimates of FY24 and only marginally higher from 13.5 percent share in FY23.
 
The news published on the date June 28, 2024 11:22 AM IST with headline  Budget may retain focus on rapid infra growth with higher capex for roads sector: Report is: 
 The government plans to construct 12,000 to 13,000 km of national highways and award contracts for similar lengths to sustain momentum in highway construction in the coming years. The government is poised to retain its focus on rapid infrastructure development this fiscal, with plans to potentially increase capital expenditure allocations for the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) in the upcoming budget for FY25, according to a report in Mint.Catch all the important stories on the upcoming budget HEREStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe increase in allocations is expected to be moderate, likely ranging between 5 percent and 10 percent above the FY24 revised estimates, the report said. This adjustment comes as the government anticipates a significant rise in private sector investments in road construction projects, particularly under the build-operate-transfer (BOT) toll model. Private investments in FY24 reached Rs 34,805 crore and are projected to nearly double in FY25, up from Rs 20,000 crore in FY23.Also Read | These stocks stand to gain if the Budget proves generous for the middle classThe BOT toll projects allow private sector participants to assume construction risks and invest in road development, thereby reducing the burden on government spending. Approximately 20-25 percent of highway projects this year are expected to be awarded under the BOT toll model, easing the government's financial outlay for infrastructure development.In the interim budget for FY25, presented in February, the government increased the MoRTH allocation to Rs 2.72 trillion, up from Rs 2.64 trillion in revised estimates for FY24 and Rs 2.58 trillion in FY23. The upcoming full budget for FY25, scheduled in late July, may see moderate increases in MoRTH allocations.Do Not Miss | Budget 2024: Do India's richest pay the highest personal income taxes?The higher allocation is intended to accelerate highway construction and address the substantial debt of Rs 3.5 trillion accrued by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) by the end of FY24. The government aims to construct 12,000 to 13,000 km of national highways and award contracts for similar lengths to sustain momentum in highway construction in the coming years.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdStory continues below AdvertisementTo bolster private sector participation, amendments have been made to the BOT toll model concession agreement, aiming to enhance traffic estimation accuracy and increase lender interest in funding such projects, according to CRISIL. Ratings agencies CRISIL and India Ratings and Research note that while budgetary allocations in the roads sector have shown robust growth over the past decade, there is now a moderation as the government seeks greater private sector involvement in infrastructure development
 
The news published on the date June 28, 2024 09:30 AM IST with headline  From the C-suite to the bottom of the pyramid, women are vanishing from India’s economic landscape is: 
 A 2022 study by Institutional Investor Advisory Services, women accounted for 18 per cent of directors in India’s top 500 corporations which form the Nifty 500 Index In 1951, there were 22 women Members of Parliament in Independent India’s first Lok Sabha. Despite 75 years of alleged pro-women policies pursued by all political parties since then, this number has risen to just 74 in the 18th Lok Sabha, which was elected in May 2024. This means that in the 17 general elections which have followed since the first, the number of women MPs has gone up by an average of just three MPs ever
 
The news published on the date June 28, 2024 08:46 AM IST with headline  How can India tide itself over the water crisis? is: 
 Representative iamge HighlightsMoody’s warns of rating impact following water scarcity in IndiaThe rating firm makes a detailed case for quick action to address water woesThe recent water crisis in Bengaluru or New Delhi is a testimony to Moody’s viewsThe Centre and the states should take immediate note of Moody’s observationsA well-coordinated strategy is needed for a water-cure future of the country“Water, water, every where,Nor any drop to drink.”- The Rime of the Ancient Mariner, Samuel Taylor Coleridge If Coleridge wa
 
The news published on the date June 28, 2024 08:11 AM IST with headline  Chart of the Day: Financial stability from the banking prism is: 
 Financial stability from the eyes of banks The Reserve Bank of India’s latest financial stability report highlights the fact that India’s banks have demonstrated resilience in almost all financial metrics. In terms of soundness, banks have never been better, and balance sheets have never been stronger. The accompanying chart, reproduced for you from the report, sums up the good parts of the banking system and the improvement seen despite the pandemic. The RBI expects banks to show further improvement in the current financial yea
 
The news published on the date June 28, 2024 08:00 AM IST with headline  RBI's financial stability report shows India’s banks are resilient, but its markets are yet to be is: 
 Financial stability report lists the triumph and travails HighlightsIndian banks have high capital ratios, multi-year low bad loans and decade high return ratiosVarious financial institutions have also shown improvement in their performance metricsIndia’s capital markets continue to be vulnerable to geopolitical risks, global spilloversDerivatives, specifically equity futures and options are a serious worryRBI expects markets to withstand major global headwinds but continues to be vigilant“Today, the matrix of financial stability is perhaps at its best, but the real challenge is to maintain it and improv
 
The news published on the date June 28, 2024 07:45 AM IST with headline  India's GDP growth to slow modestly this fiscal year and next: Poll is: 
 India's GDP growth to slow modestly this fiscal year and next: Poll Forecasts for a mild slowdown in India's fast-growing economy held steady in the first Reuters poll of economists since the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lost its parliamentary majority in phased national elections that ended in early June.Asia's third-largest economy grew 8.2% in the last fiscal year, the fastest among major economies. But growth is set to slow to 7.0% and then 6.7% in the current and next fiscal years, according to a June 19-27 Reuters poll of over 50 economists.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe forecasts are broadly unchanged from those made before the outcome of an election Prime Minister Narendra Modi was widely expected to win easily. Instead, the BJP lost its sizeable parliamentary majority for its historic third term.Forming a government with the support of regional parties, the BJP retained most ministers, suggesting no imminent shift in policy, which for years has aimed to boost gross domestic product (GDP) growth through government capital spending.But without a follow-through in private expenditure, many Indians - particularly young people - have been left out of work or in low-paying jobs. With no major change to policy expected yet, economists left their forecasts steady.
 
The news published on the date June 28, 2024 06:44 AM IST with headline  Cash Trade | Tech Mahindra price breaks out of a major resistance level
 
The news published on the date June 26, 2024 02:11 PM IST with headline  Economic growth momentum stays the course to reach 7.5% in FY25: NCAER is: 
 GDP growth continues in Q1FY25 The Indian economy kept up its growth momentum in the first quarter of the current fiscal, the National Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER) said in a report on June 26.“High-frequency indicators reveal that the domestic economy continues to remain resilient,” the NCAER said in its monthly economic review, pointing to an acceleration in industrial production and buoyant GST collections.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe country's private sector activity eased in May but is likely to have picked up again in June, preliminary results of the Purchasing Managers’ Index released last week showed.The HSBC Flash India Composite Output Index remained above the 50 mark, rising to 60.9 in June compared with 60.5 a month back.“Bank credit growth remained above 20 percent despite some deceleration in personal credit growth, and expectations of ‘above normal’ monsoon despite deficient rainfall in June held out strongly for the farm sector,” the NCAER said.
 
The news published on the date June 26, 2024 12:29 PM IST with headline  World headed for ‘food wars’ amid geopolitics, climate change, warns Olam is: 
 - Madeleine Speed and Susannah SavageThe world is headed for “food wars” as geopolitical tensions and climate change push countries into conflict over waning supplies, said one of the world’s largest agricultural commodity traders.“We have fought many wars over oil. We will fight bigger wars over food and water,” said Sunny Verghese, chief executive of Olam Agri, a Singapore-based agricultural trading house.Speaking at the Redburn Atlantic and Rothschild consumer conference last week, Verghese warned that trade barriers impose
 
The news published on the date June 26, 2024 03:51 PM IST with headline  Spectrum auction concludes after seven rounds, govt revenue seen at over Rs 11,300 cr is: 
 Bharti Airtel has emerged as the biggest bidder in the auction The 5G spectrum auction worth Rs 96,000 crore concluded on June 26 after seven rounds with bids worth over Rs 11,300 crore from Reliance Jio, Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea.Airtel emerged as the biggest spender in the 5G auction. The Sunil Mittal-led telco has spent Rs 8,000-Rs 9,000 to buy airwaves in the efficient sub-GHz 900 MHz band as well as those in the 1800 and 2100 MHz bands, sources said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdVodafone Idea (Vi) has possibly acquired spectrum in the 900 MHz, 1800 MHz and 2500MHz bands worth Rs 1200-Rs 1500 crore, they added.Both telcos have largely bought spectrum in telecom circles where their permits are coming up for renewal. Airtel, however, has also bought fresh spectrum in the 900 MHz band.The telecom department has put over 10,500 Mhz spectrum in eight frequency bands - 800 MHz, 900 MHz, 1,800 MHz, 2,100 MHz, 2,300 MHz, 2,500 MHz, 3,300 MHz and 26 GHz, valued at Rs 96,238 crore at base price, for auction.
 
The news published on the date June 26, 2024 09:54 AM IST with headline  RBI’s Das points to storm clouds over microfinance is: 
 - HighlightsRBI governor recently warned of usurious interest rates charged by some NBFCsInterest rates in microfinance are deregulated and eligible households defined clearlyHigher interest rates tend to act as a destabilising agent for vulnerable households with lower or stagnant incomeStates with assembly polls due will see such rates as potential political challengesAnalysts have pointed to stress emerging from loans with high interest rates and also rise in indebtednessGrowing volumes of bond and currency trading during the 1980s an
 
The news published on the date June 28, 2024 09:05 AM IST with headline  Are the tailwinds for offshore wind power strong enough? is: 
 Representative image HighlightsThe Union Cabinet on June 19 cleared a VGF scheme for offshore wind powerThis will help instal and commission 1 GW of offshore wind power in the countrySo far, India does not have any offshore wind power projectWith a long coastline, India’s potential for offshore wind power is hugeIt remains to be seen whether the VGF scheme can energise offshore wind power projects in IndiaAre the winds of change blowing in India’s wind energy sector? A centra
 
The news published on the date June 26, 2024 09:11 AM IST with headline  Decoding Economics: Why the US wants to rewrite rules of international trade is: 
 - Why are the US and its allies erecting barriers to trade and investment vis-à-vis China? The US claims it’s because of the unfair industrial policies that China pursues. To take one example, the European Union has recently come out with a compendium of the measures that China is using to support its electric vehicle (EV) industry and the report is being used to slap punitive tariffs on Chinese EV exports to Europe.But a recent NBER working paper
 
The news published on the date June 25, 2024 06:27 PM IST with headline  India’s external debt ratio falls to 13-year low of 18.7% in FY24 is: 
 External debt position improves India’s external debt ratio improved to the best level in 13 years in FY24, declining to 18.7 percent of the GDP from 19 percent in the previous year, according to data released by the Reserve Bank of India on June 25.The country added nearly $40 billion during this period, taking the total debt to $663.8 billion as of March 2024.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“Valuation effect due to the appreciation of the US dollar vis-à-vis the Indian rupee and other major currencies such as the yen, the euro and SDR amounted to $8.7 billion. Excluding the valuation effect, external debt would have increased by $48.4 billion instead of $39.7 billion at end-March 2024 over end-March 2023,” it noted.The valuation effect is when the value of assets held abroad changes vis-à-vis the value of domestic assets held by foreign investors.While general government debt rose 11.5 percent as of March 2024 compared with the previous year, households and nonprofit institutions serving households declined 16.5 percent.
 
The news published on the date June 25, 2024 05:10 PM IST with headline  Rupee settles 3 paise higher at 83.44 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee settles 3 paise higher at 83.44 against US dollar The rupee appreciated 3 paise against the US dollar on Tuesday, tracking a firm trend in domestic equities amid stable global crude oil prices.However, a strengthening American currency in the overseas market weighed on the local unit and restricted the up move, forex traders said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 83.46 and hit the intraday high of 83.41 and a low of 83.48 against the greenback during the session.It finally settled at 83.44 (provisional) against the dollar, registering a gain of 3 paise from its previous close.On Monday, the rupee appreciated 10 paise to settle at 83.47 against the US dollar.
 
The news published on the date June 25, 2024 03:47 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Do alcobev companies justify trading at FMCG valuations? is: 
 Alcoholic beverage (alcobev) companies have historically traded at premium valuations. Dear Reader, The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAs Allied Blenders and Distillers launches its IPO, one cannot help but wonder at the valuation that the company and the sector are commanding. You can read our research team's analysis of the IPO here.The company's earnings estimates, according to the above note, put the FY25 price to earnings (P/E) multiple at a whopping 54 times. Even then, the valuation is at a discount to industry peers United Spirits, United Breweries and Radico Khaitan.Alcoholic beverage (alcobev) companies have historically traded at premium valuations — the Red Herring Prospectus of Allied Blenders indicates an average industry P/E ratio of 62 times.
 
The news published on the date June 25, 2024 02:49 PM IST with headline  We’ve already picked decoupling’s low-hanging fruit is: 
 The global economy can withstand a massive shock wrought by any future conflict between China and Taiwan, then that’s a dream so far unfulfilled. Declines in foreign direct investment in China bolster the thesis that global companies are turning away from the world’s most-important production hub, continuing the trend of decoupling that has policymakers and corporate leaders looking for alternative manufacturing bases. The truth of the nation’s deteriorating importance isn’t so simple.Inbound FDI dropped 28.2% in the year through May, the 12th straight month of retraction. Other data released this month add weight to the “whither China” argument.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdYet, there’s a risk of overestimating the extent to which deglobalization is occurring. Brad Setser, a fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, warns policymakers may underestimate the trade and economic impact of conflict, especially in the Taiwan Strait.Instead, it’s important to recognize that some shift in manufacturing has already occurred, but this rate of change is likely to be stagnant for a little while. Both corporate and political leaders need to accept and adjust to the unsteady pace of decoupling, especially when it comes to planning for supply chain resilience.Deglobalization is the unraveling of global commerce, while decoupling is the gradual cessation of ties between two parties, in this case the US and China, and their spheres of influence. Fragmentation is the breaking up of previously large, centralized hubs of activity into more numerous, smaller groupings. Each of these is happening, and can be supported by data, but none is yet complete. They likely never will be.
 
The news published on the date June 24, 2024 02:15 PM IST with headline  Five key ways the Bank of England outperformed its peers is: 
 Five ways in which the Bank of England has outperformed many others in recent years. While the Sunak government has not hesitated in claiming credit for the return of the UK inflation rate to 2 percent after three years of exceeding that target, the Bank of England has proven notably reserved despite the country now having fewer price pressures than France, Germany and the US. Part of this modesty reflects concern that the rate of inflation may go back up by the end of the year.But there is also a cultural aspect at play. The Bank tends to be humble in highlighting its accomplishments, despite these being at the forefront of central bank practice and despite some already having been replicated by other central banks. Sounds strange? It shouldn’t. Here are five ways in which the Bank has outperformed many others in recent years:Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFor starters, it was the first to recognize that it had been a mistake to describe the 2021-22 inflation surge as transitory, and it was quick to publicly share an assessment of what led to the mischaracterization.Second, the Bank aptly handled the critical risk of financial disorder during the Liz Truss period while limiting the moral hazard risk. I certainly will not forget when, in the face of hedge funds stubbornly declining to close out their overleveraged positions at a loss, Governor Andrew Bailey stood firm on that famous Tuesday in reminding the funds that the Bank’s exceptional financial support would end on the Friday - and it did, with the funds backing down.Third, rather than signal false precision as the Federal Reserve repeatedly does via its dot plot, the Bank is clear about the unusual uncertainty facing policymaking these days. The message is further reinforced by the publication of the voting results of the Monetary Policy Committee, the top policymaking body, which more than once has included split votes with members on both sides of the majority decision.
 
The news published on the date June 24, 2024 01:59 PM IST with headline  Centre imposes stockholding limit on wheat to check hoarding, ensure price stability is: 
 Centre imposes stockholding limit on wheat to check hoarding, ensure price stability Centre has imposed a stockholding limit on wheat for retailers, wholesalers, processors and big-chain retailers from Monday, to check the hoarding of the foodgrain and to ensure price stability, a senior official said on Monday.Single retailers, big-chain retailers, processors and wholesalers will disclose wheat stocks every Friday, said Union Food Secretary Sanjeev Chopra in a press briefing here.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdChopra stressed that "I want to dispel the shortage of wheat in the country." He also noted that there is no ban on wheat exports as of now and there is no proposal to review a ban on export of sugar.He stated, "We want prices of wheat to be stable." Chopra further informed that the stock limit for wholesalers will be 3,000 tonnes, while it would be 70 per cent of the processing capacity for processors.For big chain retailers it would be 10 tonnes per outlet with an overall limit for 3,000 tonnes and for single retailers it would be 10 tonnes, he informed.
 
The news published on the date June 24, 2024 01:45 PM IST with headline  FinMin to meet CEOs of PSBs on Tuesday, review progress of financial inclusion schemes is: 
 FinMin to meet CEOs of PSBs on Tuesday, review progress of financial inclusion schemes The finance ministry has called a meeting of heads of Public Sector Banks (PSBs) on Tuesday to review progress of various financial inclusion schemes, including PM Vishwakarma, Jan Suraksha and Mudra Yojana.The meeting is scheduled to be chaired by Financial Services Secretary Vivek Joshi.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAccording to sources, the meeting would review the progress of various flagship schemes, including PM Vishwakarma, StandUp India, PM SVANidhi , among others.Other financial inclusion related issues would also be discussed in the meeting, sources said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi in September last year launched PM Vishwakarma scheme under which traditional craftsmen and artisans will be provided loan assistance at a minimal interest rate without the need for collateral.
 
The news published on the date June 24, 2024 12:50 PM IST with headline  Eastern Coalfields begins first-ever pilot project for underground coal gasification in Jharkhand is: 
 Eastern Coalfields begins first-ever pilot project for underground coal gasification in Jharkhand The government on Monday said Eastern Coalfields Ltd, a Coal India subsidiary, has commenced its first-ever pilot project for underground coal gasification in Jharkhand.Underground coal gasification (UCG) is a method of converting coal still in the ground to a combustible gas that can be used for various uses, including power generation.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Under the strategic direction of the Ministry of Coal, Eastern Coalfields Ltd (ECL) has embarked on an innovative pilot project for Underground Coal Gasification at the Kasta coal block in Jamtara district, Jharkhand," the coal ministry said in a statement.The move indicates the Centre's proactive diversification efforts within the coal mining sector.The initiative aims to revolutionise the coal industry by using in-situ coal gasification to convert it into valuable gases such as methane, hydrogen, carbon monoxide, and carbon dioxide. These gases can be utilised to produce synthetic natural gas, chemical feedstock for fuels, fertilizers, explosives, and other industrial applications.
 
The news published on the date June 27, 2024 05:43 PM IST with headline  Budget 2025: FinMin to review Mudra Yojana, financial inclusion schemes tomorrow is: 
 Mudra yojana facilitates loans up to Rs 10 lakh to income generating micro enterprises. Ahead of the Union Budget, the finance ministry on June 25 called for a detailed review of various financial inclusion schemes, including Mudra Yojana, which boosts employment creation in micro and small entities.All public sector banks have been called to the meeting to be chaired by Financial Services Secretary Vivek Joshi.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe June 25 meet will review the targets under the Mudra Yojana and Stand-up India scheme, a person aware of the development told Moneycontrol.The Mudra Yojana facilitates loans up to Rs 10 lakh to income generating micro enterprises engaged in the non-farm sector in manufacturing, trading or service sectors including activities allied to agriculture such as poultry, dairy and beekeeping. The government has extended over 43 crore loans aggregating to Rs 22.5 lakh crore under the PM Mudra Yojana since its launch in 2015.The Stand-Up India scheme on the other hand supports entrepreneurship among women and SC and ST communities.
 
The news published on the date June 24, 2024 11:46 AM IST with headline  Some Indian rate panelists see growth risks from tight policy is: 
 Some Indian rate panelists see growth risks from tight policy India's economy needs an interest rate cut to sustain high growth, two external members of the central bank's rate panel said, arguing that food price shocks so far have not added to broader inflationary pressures.Ashima Goyal and Jayanth Varma, who are members on the Reserve Bank of India's monetary policy committee (MPC), both voted to cut the benchmark rate at the last policy meeting, dissenting against the four who voted to keep it unchanged at 6.5%.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMeanwhile, Shashanka Bhide, a third external MPC member who voted for a status quo, acknowledged that the growth outlook is an "important consideration" in setting policy.The views of the three members show increasing concern among policymakers about momentum in Asia's third-largest economy, even as inflation holds stubbornly above the RBI's 4% target.Monetary policy typically acts with lags of three to five quarters, which means the higher rates would impact growth next year and not the current year, said Varma, who has voted for a rate cut for two straight meetings.
 
The news published on the date June 24, 2024 11:24 AM IST with headline  Govt to focus on job creation, farmers’ concerns in first 100 days: S&P Global Market Intelligence is: 
 Farmers' concern to be part of 100 day agenda S&P Global Market Intelligence said on Monday that the new government will likely focus on job creation and addressing farmers’ concerns in its first 100 days.“India’s recent parliamentary elections have resulted in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s continued leadership, although the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has lost its majority and now relies on coalition parties for stability and policy passage,” the research firm said in a note.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Bharatiya Janata Party won 240 seats in the recently concluded national elections, falling short of the 272-majority mark.The firm noted that India will likely continue its production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme to boost manufacturing. The PLI scheme covers 13 sectors and has benefits that extend until 2025.“The success of the scheme, measured by increased exports in key sectors, is likely to result in its continuation. The production of Apple Inc.’s iPhone in India has helped drive total exports of phones 46 percent higher year over year in the past three months,” S&P Global noted.
 
The news published on the date June 24, 2024 11:02 AM IST with headline  S&P retains India's FY'25 GDP growth estimate at 6.8% is: 
 S&P retains India's FY'25 GDP growth estimate at 6.8% S&P Global Ratings on Monday retained India's GDP growth forecast for the current financial year at 6.8 per cent and said high interest rates and lower fiscal spur would temper demand.In its economic outlook for Asia Pacific, S&P Global Ratings said India's economic growth continues to surprise on the upside with the economy growing 8.2 per cent in fiscal year 2023-24.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"We expect growth to moderate to 6.8 per cent this fiscal year, with high interest rates and lower fiscal spur tempering demand in the non-agricultural sectors," it said.For the fiscal years 2025-26 and 2026-27, S&P projected growth rates of 6.9 per cent and 7 per cent, respectively.S&P's estimates for FY'25 is lower than that of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), which earlier this month projected the Indian economy to expand at 7.2 per cent in the current fiscal, on the back of improving rural demand and moderating inflation.
 
The news published on the date June 24, 2024 08:48 AM IST with headline  Key GST reforms remain in a wait mode is: 
 Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman at the 53rd GST Council meeting on June 22, 2024 HighlightsThe 53rd GST Council meeting was held after a long gapThe meeting focused mostly on sector-specific compliance issuesNo discussion on key issues, such as rate rationalisation and fuel levyGoM on rates reconstituted; FM puts the fuel-levy ball in states’ courtBig-ticket issues should be addressed quickly to make the GST structure robustComing roughly a week ahead of the seventh anniversary of the launch of the goods and services tax in the country on July 1, 2017, the 53r
 
The news published on the date June 22, 2024 10:27 PM IST with headline  GST Council waives off interest, penalty on retrospective notices for 2017-2020 is: 
 The next Council meeting will be held in August. The Goods and Service Tax (GST) Council in its 53rd meeting on June 22 waived off interest and penalty on tax demand notices for the period 2017-2020, provided the assessees pay the tax by March 31, 2025, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said.“The Council recommended waiving off the interest and penalty for cases that fall under section 73,” Sitharaman said at a press briefing.The next Council meeting will be held in August, she added.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBiometric authenticationIn order to plug the loophole of fake invoicing, the Council also approved pan-India roll out of Aadhaar-based biometric authentication for assessees, which will be implemented immediately in a phased manner.Rate rationalisation
 
The news published on the date June 21, 2024 10:08 AM IST with headline  Narendra Modi should give coalition allies more room to spend is: 
 Modi may depend for continued power on a motley crew of allies. Barely a fortnight after unexpected election results upended Indian politics, New Delhi looks to have settled into a familiar rut. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has apparently shrugged off his rebuke from voters and reasserted control of the federal government. While he may depend for continued power on a motley crew of allies, none have been given the sort of ministerial role that would suggest they will drive policy in coming years.Yet, as my colleague Andy Mukherjee has argued, this continuity conceals a great deal of ferment. The biggest change should be to relations between New Delhi and India’s influential state governments.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHowever, deferential Modi’s newly vital allies might appear, the fact is that they have plans, projects and constituencies of their own to cultivate. Coalitions in India aren’t like those in Europe, where common priorities are hammered out in advance and then shared publicly. Alliance politics involve continual give-and-take — and usually the smaller partners, many of whom command regional support bases, do quite a bit of the taking.We know enough to predict what they will ask for. Modi’s two biggest alliance partners — Bihar’s Janata Dal (United) and Andhra Pradesh’s Telugu Desam Party, headed by state chief ministers Nitish Kumar and Chandrababu Naidu, respectively — have long demanded a greater infusion of federal funds into their states’ coffers. Now that they are pivotal to power in New Delhi, they undoubtedly see a moment to cash in.Markets would seem to agree with that forecast: Companies linked to infrastructure projects in Andhra Pradesh have massively outperformed the indices over the past fortnight.
 
The news published on the date June 21, 2024 09:35 AM IST with headline  Will bond yields in India be lower for longer? is: 
 India's bond market is heading for a prolonged party HighlightsIndia’s 10-year bond yield has slipped over 20 basis points since index inclusion announcementFund managers hope for further 25-30 bps fall in bond yieldsCurrent ease in bond yields is driven mainly by demand from foreign investorsExpectations of policy rate cut, fiscal prudence, would help yields ease moreIndia’s 10-year benchmark government bond yield has eased 17 basis points over the past six months and in fact, is down over 20 bps since JP Morgan announced in September 202
 
The news published on the date June 20, 2024 06:11 PM IST with headline  Govt weighs interventions to stabilise rising wheat prices is: 
 Prices of wheat and wheat flour have increased by up to Rs 2 per kg from a year ago, according to the official data. The government on Thursday said it will undertake suitable policy interventions to ensure stability in wheat prices for consumers in the country.After a meeting of the committee of ministers chaired by Home Affairs and Cooperation Minister Amit Shah, the government said it has directed officials to keep a close watch on wheat prices.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPrices of wheat and wheat flour have increased by up to Rs 2 per kg from a year ago, according to the official data.As of June 20, the average retail price of wheat stood at Rs 30.99 per kg, up from Rs 28.95 a year ago, while wheat flour price rose to Rs 36.13 per kilogram as against Rs 34.29 per kg last year, the data showed.Also read: Heatwave to keep food inflation high in coming months, say economists
 
The news published on the date June 20, 2024 05:02 PM IST with headline  The positive side of India’s heat wave, industrial production to stay steady around 5% level: Economists is: 
 Coal, electricity to keep industrial growth steady in May, June Heat wave is likely to impact farm incomes and inflation negatively, but economists contend that it may end up having a positive impact for industrial production.Experts indicate that industrial growth will likely stay steady around 5% in the coming months, as electricity and coal production will keep the sector humming. Electricity has a 8% weight in the index, whereas mining account for 14.4% share.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“The impact of the heatwave is clearly visible through high frequency indicators such as coal production, electricity demand, etc. They were quite robust in April 2024 and helped in lifting up the IIP to touch 5%,” said Paras Jasrai, senior analyst, India Ratings.Coal production was 7.5% in April compared with 8.7% in the previous month and 9.1% in April 2023. Electricity generation had expanded 9.1% in April rising from 8.6% in the previous month, and a 1.1% contraction in April last year.The index of industrial production eased to 5% in April from 5.4% in the previous month, but stayed above the 5% mark for third consecutive month.
 
The news published on the date June 20, 2024 04:27 PM IST with headline  Indians' funds in Swiss banks plunge 70% to hit four-year low of Rs 9,771 cr is: 
 These are official figures reported by banks to the Swiss National Bank (SNB) and do not indicate the quantum of the much-debated alleged black money held by Indians in Switzerland. These figures also do not include the money that Indians, NRIs or others might have in Swiss banks in the names of third-country entities. Funds parked by Indian individuals and firms in Swiss banks, including through local branches and other financial institutions, fell sharply by 70 percent in 2023 to a four-year low of 1.04 billion Swiss Francs (Rs 9,771 crore), annual data from Switzerland's central bank showed on Thursday.The decline in aggregate funds of Indian clients with Swiss banks for the second consecutive year, after hitting a 14-year-high of CHF 3.83 billion in 2021, was largely driven by a sharp plunge in funds held through bonds, securities and various other financial instruments.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBesides, the amount in customer deposit accounts and funds held through other bank branches in India also declined significantly, the data showed.These are official figures reported by banks to the Swiss National Bank (SNB) and do not indicate the quantum of the much-debated alleged black money held by Indians in Switzerland. These figures also do not include the money that Indians, NRIs or others might have in Swiss banks in the names of third-country entities.The total amount of CHF 1,039.8 million, described by the SNB as 'total liabilities' of Swiss banks or 'amounts due to' their Indian clients at the end of 2023, included CHF 310 million in customer deposits (down from CHF 394 million at 2022-end), CHF 427 million held via other banks (down from CHF 1,110 million), CHF 10 million (down from CHF 24 million) through fiduciaries or trusts, and CHF 302 million as 'other amounts due to customers in form of bonds, securities and various other financial instruments (down from CHF 1,896 million).The total amount stood at a record high of nearly 6.5 billion Swiss francs in 2006, after which it has been mostly on a downward path, except for a few years including in 2011, 2013, 2017, 2020 and 2021, as per SNB data.While all four components had declined during 2019, the year 2020 saw a significant plunge in customer deposits, while there was a surge across all categories in 2021. During 2022, only the fiduciaries segment saw an increase.According to the SNB, its data for 'total liabilities' of Swiss banks towards Indian clients takes into account all types of funds of Indian customers at Swiss banks, including deposits from individuals, banks and enterprises. This includes data for branches of Swiss banks in India, as also non-deposit liabilities.Story continues below AdvertisementOn the other hand, the 'locational banking statistics' of the Bank for International Settlement (BIS), which have been described in the past by Indian and Swiss authorities as a more reliable measure for deposits by Indian individuals in Swiss banks, showed a decline of nearly 25 percent during 2023 in such funds to $70.6 million (Rs 663 crore).It had dropped by 18 percent in 2022 and by over 8 percent in 2021, after rising by nearly 39 percent in 2020.This figure takes into account deposits as well as loans of Indian non-bank clients of Swiss-domiciled banks and had shown an increase of 7 per cent in 2019, after declining by 11 percent in 2018 and by 44 percent in 2017.It peaked at over $2.3 billion (over Rs 9,000 crore) at the end of 2007.Swiss authorities have always maintained that assets held by Indian residents in Switzerland cannot be considered as 'black money' and they actively support India in its fight against tax fraud and evasion.An automatic exchange of information in tax matters between Switzerland and India has been in force since 2018. Under this framework, detailed financial information on all Indian residents having accounts with Swiss financial institutions since 2018, was provided for the first time to Indian tax authorities in September 2019 and this is being followed every year.In addition to this, Switzerland has been actively sharing details about accounts of Indians suspected to have indulged in financial wrongdoings after the submission of prima facie evidence. Such exchange of information has taken place in hundreds of cases so far.The overall funds of foreign clients, including institutions, declined to CHF 983 billion (over Rs 92 lakh crore) in 2023, from CHF 1.15 trillion at the end of 2022.In terms of assets, Indian clients accounted for CHF 1.46 million at the end of 2023, marking a decline of 63 percent from the previous year and the lowest level in over two decades.This included dues from Indian customers worth about CHF 188 million, up from CHF 164 million at the end of 2022.While the UK topped the charts for foreign clients' money in Swiss banks at CHF 254 billion, it was followed by the US (CHF 71 billion) at the second spot and France (CHF 64 billion) at the third place.These three were followed in the top 10 by West Indies, Germany, Hong Kong, Singapore, Luxembourg and Guernsey.India was placed at 67th place, down from 46th place at the end of 2022.Pakistan also saw a dip to CHF 286 million (from CHF 388 million), while Bangladesh witnessed a sharp plunge from CHF 55 million to CHF 18 million.Just like in India, the issue of alleged black money in Swiss banks has been a political hot potato in the two neighbouring countries as well
 
The news published on the date June 20, 2024 03:32 PM IST with headline  China will struggle to undo US dominance is: 
 China's slice dipped to 3%, a bit less than half what is was in the decade through 2019. The hottest thing in global economics is an oldie but a goodie. This market darling is enjoying enviable growth and sucking in capital from around the world. It possesses a vibrant labor market and a currency that's not just a store of value, but increasingly seen as an ascendant strategic asset. And it’s not the China of yesteryear.The lucky country is the US, a place so often said to have been on the verge of eclipse for various reasons such as big deficits, the euro and China's seemingly inexorable climb to economic supremacy. Numerous threats have fizzled or have been proven exaggerated. There's little denying that the past few years have seen a major shift in how the relative strengths and weaknesses of the two are assessed. For now, the US economy is in a good place, as a couple of new reports indicate. Perhaps the biggest threat comes not from outside, but has its origins in domestic strains.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe term de-dollarization has been fashionable in recent years. It's a pithy way of describing disillusionment with the greenback, in part because of sanctions against Washington's antagonists. Viewed cynically, this is a successor to dollar debasement, a conservative rally cry in the years immediately after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., when the Federal Reserve embarked on massive easing. The dollar collapse didn't happen then and isn't occurring now, according to figures from International Monetary Fund sent to Bloomberg News.The US attracted almost one-third of investment that flowed across borders since the pandemic erupted, a marked increase from the pre-Covid average of 18%, the IMF numbers showed. China's slice dipped to 3%, a bit less than half what is was in the decade through 2019. That jives with data from Beijing: Foreign investment slowed for a fourth month in April and is down 36% from the same period a year earlier.The once-thriving industry that churned out timetables for when China would overtake the US has gone quiet. In a major global review, Capital Economics projects America will be dominant for some time. This judgement rests on the dollar’s premier role, the size and scope of US capital markets, an abundance of natural resources and, at a time of doomsaying about dwindling fertility, a sound expansion in the labor force. Could this conclusion have been reached at any time? Quite possibly, but vital ingredients are a lead in artificial intelligence and a re-affirmation of financial prowess. “If you just look at pure economic dominance, China hasn't come anywhere close to the US and we don't think it ever will,” Jennifer McKeown, the firm’s chief global economist, told me. “There has been a major shift in thinking around this. Economists have been coming around to the view that China’s model just isn’t sustainable.”
 
The news published on the date June 20, 2024 04:57 PM IST with headline  EPFO records highest-ever addition of 18.92 lakh net members in April is: 
 Gender-wise analysis of payroll data unveils that out of 8.87 lakh new members, around 2.49 lakh are new female members. Retirement fund body EPFO on June 20 said it added 18.92 lakh members on a net basis in April 2024, highest ever since the first payroll data was published in April 2018.Around 8.87 lakh members enrolled for the first time with the EPFO in April, a labour ministry statement said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAccording to the statement, an increase of 31.29 percent has been registered in net member addition during the current month as compared to the previous month of March 2024. Further, the year-on-year analysis reveals a growth of 10 percent in net member additions compared to April 2023.ALSO READ: EPFO fixes 8.25 % interest rate on employees' provident fund for 2023-24"This surge in membership can be attributed to various factors, including increased employment opportunities, a growing awareness of employee benefits, and the effectiveness of EPFO's outreach programs," the statement added.
 
The news published on the date June 20, 2024 02:50 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Rural consumption conundrum is: 
 All eyes are now on the monsoon. Will it be supportive for rural consumption this year? Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe big question is whether the election results will push the Centre to act on faltering rural consumption. One of the first big decisions of the Union Cabinet in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's third term in office has been to hike the minimum support price (MSP) for about 14 Kharif crops. The move is aimed at boosting farmers’ income and consequently improving rural conditions. Other decisions such as the payout on account of the Kisan Nidhi scheme and the boost to affordable housing, are also aimed at boosting consumption.While the MSP hike is welcome, it is not unusually high. Media reports state that the increase ranges between 1.4 and 12.5 per cent, with paddy, the most widely cultivated crop, seeing a notable 5.35 per cent rise in its MSP. How much this will alleviate farmers’ woes remains to be seen. “What really matters is the level of procurement of these crops and while wheat and paddy see concerted efforts by the government in procurement at MSP, the same does not take place for other crops,” says my colleague Ravi Ananthanarayanan in this article.Per media reports earlier this month, S&P Global Market Intelligence highlighted that weak private consumption in India remains the largest concern, with rural demand in particular struggling to catch up. This ironically comes at a time when the country’s overall economic growth remains strong. Explaining the rural-urban divide, Barclays Research (India) explains that the slower private consumption is partly attributed to rural consumers while urban consumption has weathered the storm better.
 
The news published on the date June 20, 2024 03:41 PM IST with headline  MC Daily Monsoon Tracker: North India stares at a huge rain deficit; Delhi worst is: 
 North India is facing a dry spell Delhi, Chandigarh, Haryana and Punjab have faced a huge rain deficit in the first 19 days of June. A Moneycontrol analysis shows that Northern Indian states are facing largest rainfall deficits compared to normal, but the situation for the rest of the country is not too encouraging either. The country had a rainfall deficit of 18% for period between June 1 and June 19.In monsoon parlance, a normal is calculated using long-period average of 30 years for a specific region.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA deficit is computed in percentage terms if the rainfall was below the long-period average.Except for seven states and union territories which have received more rainfall than the normal, rest of the country was facing a deficit. Moreover, in 14 states precipitation was lower than 50% during this period. Some of these include, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Gujarat.In Delhi, Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana the departure is more than -90%. (see graphic)Further analysis shows that reservoir levels compound the problem. For the country as a whole reservoir levels are down 18% compared with the normal or long-term average.Story continues below AdvertisementSome states like Bihar, Andhra Pradesh have an over 50% deficit in reservoir levels.Economists contend that the situation can end up hurting farm income, agricultural output and consumer inflation. Food inflation was sticky above 8% in May and is likely to stay elevated in the coming months.Pulses and vegetable inflation has been in double digits since over six months, meanwhile fruits inflation is inching up.A higher food inflation means that rural inflation has outstripped urban inflation for nearly a year and is likely to do so in coming months.A high rural inflation further eats into wages, which affects rural economy.The agricultural sector recorded 1.4% growth in FY24, compared to 4.7% in the previous year, lower than 3.7% long-term average
 
The news published on the date June 20, 2024 04:13 PM IST with headline  MSP announcements didn’t pander to farmers. But NDA’s welfare promise makes it impossible to ignore them is: 
 MSP is the focal point where three irreconcilable strands of political economy show up. The Minimum Support Price (MSP) of 14 kharif crops announced by the NDA government on Wednesday stuck to the suggestions made by its expert body, Commission for Agricultural Costs & Prices (CACP).Paddy (common variety) MSP was increased by 5.4% over the previous year to Rs 2300/ quintal. It’s 150% of the average all-India cost for a quintal. Cost here includes actual expenses towards inputs and imputed family labour.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIt’s this manner of cost calculation that was the source of friction between the Modi 2.0 government and some sections of farmers. These farmers want the government to use a benchmark which adds rental value of owned land and interest on fixed capital to the way in which costs are calculated to fix MSP. Modi 2.0 found the demand unreasonable and didn’t budge. Neither have farmers backed down.MSP is the focal point where three irreconcilable strands of political economy show up. They are the primary welfare promise of Modi 3.0, the indispensability of Punjab’s farmers to fulfilling it and the need to transition away from the current pattern of MSP-based procurement if agricultural reforms have to take root.
 
The news published on the date June 19, 2024 03:45 PM IST with headline  Council unlikely to review 28% GST on online gaming at June 22 meeting is: 
 GST from online gaming has gone up quite substantially since October 1, 2023 to Rs 1,100 crore per month. The online gaming sector, which pays 28 percent as goods and services tax (GST) on the full face value involved, will have to wait longer for relief. A much-anticipated review of the levy is unlikely to be discussed at the upcoming GST Council meeting on June 22, according to people close to the matter. The review, initially scheduled to take place after six months from October 1, 2023, was expected to address critical issues surrounding taxation of the burgeoning online gaming industry.The online gaming industry has been seeking 28 per cent GST on gross gaming revenue (GGR) instead of full face value. Gross gaming revenue (GGR) is the difference between the amount wagered minus the amount won. Full face value is the value of the bet or contest entry amount.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“The council will not address the comprehensive review of online gaming at the upcoming meeting. A review is not needed. There is no need seen at the moment for the review as industry has adjusted well to the higher tax implemented from October 1, 2023. Thus, the review is not part of the agenda in the upcoming council meeting on June 22,” a government official told Moneycontrol.Since last October, a uniform 28 percent GST has prevailed on the full value of bets placed in online games, regardless of whether it involved games of skill or of chance. Industry stakeholders had been hopeful that the planned review may offer potential changes in the GST tailored to the unique nature of online gaming.The GST Council has already clarified that the 28 percent levy will not apply on re-bets made without withdrawal of the amount, thus resolving a hig issue that the online gaming industry faced, the official said.
 
The news published on the date June 19, 2024 12:33 PM IST with headline  Chinese copper glut grows in sign of sluggish economy is: 
 Copper inventories usually build up in the first few months of the year. Harry Dempsey in London and Wenjie Ding in BeijingThe biggest glut of copper in four years has built up in Chinese warehouses, after a price spike and tepid consumer demand prompted manufacturers in Asia’s largest economy to pull back on buying the world’s most important industrial metal.Stocks of the metal in Shanghai Futures Exchange warehouses have grown to their highest level since 2020 at about 330,000 tonnes this month, according to Bloomberg data. Before then, the las
 
The news published on the date June 19, 2024 11:48 AM IST with headline  Most of top-level executives have positive perception of GST: Deloitte survey is: 
 Most of top-level executives have positive perception of GST: Deloitte survey An increasing number of C-suite executives have a positive perception of GST with many highlighting further reforms like rationalising tax rates and effective dispute resolution process as focus areas to usher in GST 2.0, a Deloitte survey said on Wednesday.The Deloitte GST@7 survey, engaging C-suite and C-1 level executives across diverse industries through online platforms, highlights areas which have resulted in growing confidence in GST, specifically on the positive role of GST automation/ technology and consultative environment, in policy making.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdReflecting growing confidence in GST, the survey found that about 84 per cent of respondents reported a positive perception of GST in 2024, up from 72 per cent in 2023 and 59 per cent in 2022.Automation of tax compliance, including e-invoicing, continues to be voted as a top performance area. Also, enhanced and continued stakeholder consultation, leading to the issuance of clarificatory circulars/instructions was considered as a positive move in policy making.The survey highlights the areas where more reforms are required; these include rationalising tax rates, offering an effective dispute resolution process, removing credit restrictions, adopting faceless assessments, liberalising export rules and implementing a compliance rating system.
 
The news published on the date June 19, 2024 10:48 AM IST with headline  Narrowing the gender gap can spur economic growth higher is: 
 Why is it highly important to reduce the negative gender gap in order to take forward economic development? (Representative image) India emerges among the lowest global economies on the gender gap index compiled by the World Economic Forum -- at 129 among 146. At right at the bottom comes war torn Sudan, whereas countries like Afghanistan and Russia are not even considered as they don’t make available the necessary data. Among the south Asia countries, Bangladesh (99), Nepal, Sri Lanka and Bhutan are ahead of India, with only Pakistan (145) behind. Perhaps the most tellin
 
The news published on the date June 19, 2024 06:22 PM IST with headline  GST Council may quash retro tax demands on online gaming companies is: 
 The GST Council is set to deliberate on the recommendation at its upcoming meeting on June 22. In a potential relief to the online gaming sector, the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council is likely to consider an amendment to the Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) Act, 2017, that would quash retrospective tax demands. This proposal, suggested by the law committee, aims to address tax notices issued where lower taxes were paid due to interpretation issues or lack of clarity in the law.According to an Economic Times report, the law committee has recommended the introduction of a new Section 11A to the CGST Act. This section would empower the government to refrain from recovering GST that was not levied or was under-levied due to prevalent general practices.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe GST Council is set to deliberate on this recommendation at its upcoming meeting on June 22. If approved, this amendment would enable authorities to quash tax demands raised retrospectively, offering significant relief to the online gaming industry.However, the amendment does not address the issue of overpaid taxes. Companies that have paid excess GST due to these practices will not be eligible for refunds.In the financial year 2023-24, the Directorate General of Goods and Services Tax Intelligence (DGGI) detected 6,323 cases of tax evasion amounting to Rs 1.98 lakh crore. Of these, the online gaming sector had the highest number of tax evasion notices, totaling over Rs 1 lakh crore.
 
The news published on the date June 19, 2024 09:13 AM IST with headline  Where GST legislation needs a change to bring it in sync with business realities is: 
 GST has witnessed certain regressive patterns. By Arjun Raghavendra"The life of the law has not been logic; it has been experience."Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad- Oliver Wendell Holmes.It cannot be stressed enough that practical experiences and societal changes necessarily shape any law. GST is no exception. A revenue oriented theoretical approach relying solely on abstract principles cannot sustain any meaningful economic growth. Adaptability is the vital life force of any statute. Like our constitution, we need tax laws that are reflective of a living and breathing society that is transforming and evolving, the amendments being a testimony to the same.Taxation in an economy has three important facets – tax policy, tax administration, and tax litigation. The ideal objective of any tax policy design is that the administration of the same results in optimum revenue collection without a burdensome compliance cost for the taxpayers. This, by default, minimizes any subsequent litigation.
 
The news published on the date June 19, 2024 08:52 AM IST with headline  India-EU FTA talks — How to resolve the carbon conflict is: 
 India does not rule out retaliatory action to counter Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism. (Representative image) HighlightsThe eighth round of India-EU FTA talks from June 24Both sides realise the importance of bolstering trade tiesEU’s proposed CBAM is a major irritant in deliberationsIndia does not rule out retaliatory action to counter CBAMConfrontation may not be the ideal strategy to oppose a carbon levyNew Delhi should devise a mechanism to safeguard its interests and enhance bilateral trade After a brief poll pause, India and the EU — both busy with their respective parliamentary elections in recen
 
The news published on the date June 19, 2024 08:36 AM IST with headline  Decoding Economics: Where will the jobs come from? is: 
 Where will the better, more productive jobs come from? Perhaps the most important issue for both politics and economics in India today is the lack of jobs for the masses. With millions joining the labour force every year, finding jobs for them must be the top priority. And this is true, not just for India, but for most of the developing economies. The problem is that the policies that worked well in the past are unlikely to be as effective now. What then is the wa
 
The news published on the date June 18, 2024 08:42 PM IST with headline  Retail sales rise a meager 0.1% in May from April as still high inflation curbs spending is: 
 Retail sales rise a meager 0.1% in May from April as still high inflation curbs spending Consumers barely increased spending in May from April as still high inflation and high interest rates curbed spending.Retail sales rose 0.1% in May, below the pace that economists projected, according to the Commerce Department. And April sales were revised downward, a 0.2% decline, from unchanged. Sales rose 0.6% in March and 0.9% in February. That comes after sales fell 1.1% in January, dragged down in part by inclement weather.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdExcluding gas prices and auto sales, retail sales rose the same amount. Excluding sales from gasoline, whose prices have been falling, sales were up 0.3%.The retail sales data offers only a partial look at consumer spending because it excludes things like travel and lodging. However at restaurants, the lone service category tracked in the monthly retail sales report, sales fell 0.4% in May.Sales at clothing and accessory stores rose 0.9%, while electronics and appliance stores posted a 0.4% gain. Online sales rose 0.8%. But business at building material and garden supplies fell 0.8%. And sales at gas stations were down 2.2%.
 
The news published on the date June 18, 2024 08:17 PM IST with headline  India will lose fewer millionaires in 2024 compared to the previous year: Wealth report is: 
 Around 4,300 millionaires are likely to exit the country in 2024 compared with 5,100 in the previous year. India will lose fewer millionaires to migration in 2024 compared with the previous two years, according to The Henley Private Wealth Migration Report 2024 released on June 18 by Henley and Partners in association with wealth intelligence firm New World Wealth.Around 4,300 millionaires are likely to exit the country in 2024 compared with 5,100 in the previous year. India is likely to be third after China and the United Kingdom in terms of migrations from the country.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“India is witnessing a steady net outflow of millionaires but here the story is more positive. Opportunities for overseas investments are opening up for many wealthy Indians, especially in Australia and the US,” the report said.On the other hand, UAE is likely to be the largest beneficiary gaining 6,800 millionaires in 2024, followed by the US and Singapore, it said.
 
The news published on the date June 14, 2024 05:09 PM IST with headline  Govt to launch 10th round of commercial coal auctions next week is: 
 The commercial coal auction was launched in June 2020 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. So far, the coal ministry has auctioned 107 blocks with 256 MT peak rated capacity in 9 rounds. Central government is set to launch the 10th round of commercial coal block auction, the Union coal ministry said in a statement on June 14.The new round of auction, which will be launched by newly-appointed coal minister G Kishan Reddy next week, will see 62 blocks on offer without end user curbs, the statement said.Story continues below AdvertisementThe government allows coal produced from these blocks to be sold by the allocattee in free market.The commercial coal auction was launched in June 2020 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. So far, the coal ministry has auctioned 107 blocks with 256 MT peak rated capacity in 9 rounds.Out of the total blocks auctioned, 11 have been operationalized and around 17.5 MT coal has been produced from these commercial blocks.The ministry has also developed a coal block portal on the PM Gatishakti National Master Plan to ensure that the bidders have all the required information related to geographical features of the blocks
 
The news published on the date June 14, 2024 05:03 PM IST with headline  Business in the Week Ahead (June 17-21, 2024) is: 
 market Another topsy turvy week at D-Street ended on Friday, Nifty opened to gains but quickly dipped below 23,400. The markets have recovered the losses it incurred after election results but some experts feel it may not be out of the woods yet. The market is expected to remain range bound till about the Budget announcement and as June quarter earnings wind down.V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist, Geojit Financial Services believes the market will remain range boun
 
The news published on the date June 14, 2024 05:02 PM IST with headline  Scorching Summers: People in Uttarakhand Face Water Shortage Issues
 
The news published on the date June 14, 2024 04:43 PM IST with headline  The Reading List: June 14, 2024 is: 
 Here are some articles and social media gems from the world of economy. In a world strapped for time, we thought you may find it useful to have a selection of articles we read this past week. As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. Occasionally, we may stray from these subjects.These links may be from external websites we frequent o
 
The news published on the date June 14, 2024 04:04 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | A plateful of climate change is: 
 Climate change has made it necessary for the US Federal Reserve to closely watch what is called the hurricane season to gauge the economy’s strength. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. In 1991, the average food inflation in India was 17.9 percent and in the two decades that followed, food inflation was in double digits most years. Being a fledgling manufacturing economy, still dominated by farming, India’s fiscal and monetary policies were tied intimately with food prices. Food had more than 60 percent weight in official inflation indices as well. Food also accounted for the lion’s share of household expenses.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMore importantly, food inflation was something very closely associated with emerging markets, especially India. The prices of pulses or vegetables hardly made headlines in developed nations such as the US and European countries, but in India, it toppled governments.Fast forward to today, food isn’t as threatening to the political economy as before. But the challenges that come in the way of maintaining price stability remain and new hurdles have emerged as well. It should not surprise us that monetary policy, which never had much to do with food inflation, continues to be influenced significantly by it. This influence has stayed after adoption of the consumer price index where the weight of food is lower than in the wholesale price index.Ergo, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has not been able to enjoy the fruits of a record low core inflation (which excludes food but stands for everything else that reflects rising affluence) because a handful of pulses and vegetables continue to thwart price stability.
 
The news published on the date June 14, 2024 12:54 PM IST with headline  Wholesale price inflation rises for 3rd straight month to 2.61% in May is: 
 WPI inflation data for May was released on June 14 India's wholesale price index-based inflation rose for the third straight month to 2.61 percent in May on a year-on-year basis as against 1.26 percent a month ago, data from the commerce ministry showed on June 14."Positive rate of inflation in May 2024 is primarily due to an increase in prices of food articles, manufacture of food products, crude petroleum and natural gas, mineral oils, other manufacturing, etc," the Ministry of Commerce and Industry said in a statement.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe month-over-month change in the WPI index for May stood at 0.20 percent as compared to April.The rate of inflation based on the WPI Food Index increased from 5.52 percent in April 2024 to 7.40 percent in May 2024, as per the data.Also Read | RBI may keep rates tight till further clarity on food inflation risk, say economists
 
The news published on the date June 14, 2024 09:22 AM IST with headline  Why the Modi 3.0 Cabinet points to a change in style of management is: 
 The command-and-control system is well entrenched, and all members of Modi's team know their place HighlightsCEOs typically adopt leadership by fear, faced with high targets and limited term at the helmThe CEO’s pressure to perform is transferred to the team, and growth is pursued at all costsModi’s leadership style resembled that of leadership by fear in the first two termsThe Cabinet was changed dramatically in the second term, with Modi retaining the decision-making powerModi 3.0 Cabinet shows that leadership style may have changedA chief executive I used to know was fond o
 
The news published on the date June 14, 2024 08:57 AM IST with headline  Can the GST Council walk the Centre’s talk on fuel levy? is: 
 With GST revenues showing steady buoyancy in recent times, it is perhaps the opportune moment for the council to address this critical and complicated issue. (Representative image) HighlightsThe government will work to bring fuels under GST, says oil ministerGST on fuels has long been on the agenda of the councilHowever, the Centre and the states are hesitant to take a final callThe primary reason is the fear of revenue loss as all depend heavily on this levyIf India has to morph into a developed nation, GST on fuel needs to be implemented at the earliestOil minister Hardeep Singh Puri chose to walk a slipper
 
The news published on the date June 14, 2024 08:20 AM IST with headline  Chart of the Day: India’s household debt may have reached a record high in FY24 is: 
 India's household debt is on the rise The surge in personal loan disbursals by lenders has shown that Indian households have been borrowing big time in the past two years. Notwithstanding regulatory clampdown by asking lenders to set aside more capital for unsecured personal loans, the growth in these has continued to be elevated. Logically, the indebtedness of Indian households has increased steadily.(image) Indian households' debt rose to record high in FY24The above chart, reproduced for you from Motila
 
The news published on the date June 13, 2024 10:17 PM IST with headline  Need to moderate rate, widen tax base for Viksit Bharat goal by 2047: Experts is: 
 India's tax to GDP ratio suffers from the presence of a thriving informal sector, which still accounts for 30 per cent to 35 per cent of the economy, Kaushik Dutta, Director, Thought Arbitrage Research Institute, said at a seminar organised by Think Change Forum. There is a need for a shift in the taxation mindset from rates to revenue by moderating tax rates and widening base in order to achieve the goal of 'Viksit Bharat' by 2047, experts said.They underscored the need on transition from rates to revenue focused on lowering tax rates, enlarging the tax-paying base and thereby creating the means for financing of India's investment and development needs.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Conventional higher tax rates haven't resulted in significant tax buoyancy. Recognising this fact, governments in India since 1991 onwards have clearly batted for moderate tax rates leading to greater levels of transparency and compliance," EY India senior partner Sudhir Kapadia said.Time has come to bite the bullet for reforms in direct taxes, he said, adding, there could be one simplified rate structure for businesses and for individuals, there could be one simple three-rate structure with low or moderate rates, no surcharges and cesses and no significant deductions.On GST, he said, a lot has been spoken about the rates and clearly it is time to have a far lower number of rates in GST structure. "It is also time to ensure we do not have constraints related to availing of input tax credits. There has been a steady increase in income tax revenues but we need to have continued focus on taxpayer experience with tax administration, and ensure the filing process remains seamless and hassle-free," he added.
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2024 01:09 PM IST with headline  Indian banks to ask regulator to not raise provisioning for infra loans is: 
 Indian banks to ask regulator to not raise provisioning for infra loans The Indian Banks' Association (IBA) will ask the central bank to keep provisioning for infrastructure project loans unchanged in its feedback to the latter's recent proposal to raise the amount of capital lenders should set aside against such loans, three banking sources told Reuters on Wednesday.Last month, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) proposed that banks and non-banking financial companies (NBFC) set aside a provision of 5% of the total loan amount of infrastructure projects at the construction phase, a sharp jump from the 0.4% required currently.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"The blanket 5% provisioning requirement will sharply increase the cost of implementing such projects and will hurt project financing," one of the sources familiar with the matter said."In case there is a delay in project completion, additional provisioning requirement should be brought in," the source said.Indian banks had seen large defaults across infrastructure loans from 2012-2013 on account of exuberant lending, straining the banking system.
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2024 01:03 PM IST with headline  US economic slowdown? Watch what consumers do, not how they feel is: 
 Consumer sentiment has simply become a less reliable predictor of consumers’ behaviour. Over the past few years, even as they have been gritting their teeth and complaining about higher prices, consumers have been fueling US economic growth. Now their pandemic savings are gone and the labour market is cooling off, raising the question: How much will the economy slow down?First, two points: One, economic growth has shocked repeatedly on the upside, beating expectations for growth quarter after quarter since the pandemic recovery began in 2020. The economy is bigger today than forecasters such as the Congressional Budget Office predicted even prior to the pandemic. Two, households entered this year with more consumer purchasing power than they had prior to the pandemic.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAnd yet frustration with inflation over the past few years soured Americans’ views of the economy, even as their real consumption and economic well-being grew. The result was lowered consumer sentiment and false predictions of recession.This history of pessimism presents a new risk for the US economy. Have we been crying wolf for so long that we will fail to see the actual wolf at the door?The first step is to realize that consumer sentiment has simply become a less reliable predictor of consumers’ behaviour. So while sentiment has been improving, this doesn’t necessarily mean that spending will stay strong throughout 2024.
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2024 12:27 PM IST with headline  RBI's reserve maintenance system for banks fails on Tuesday, say traders is: 
 RBI's reserve maintenance system for banks fails on Tuesday, say traders India's central bank system that enables lenders to manage their day-to-day liquidity needs did not work on Tuesday due to a technical issue, treasury officials said, its first such failure since it was set up nearly four years ago.The automated sweep-in and sweep-out system (ASISO), using which banks park funds at the central bank's Standing Deposit Facility and borrow at its Marginal Standing Facility, went down and funds were neither debited nor credited by the Reserve Bank of India, the officials said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"There was a technical issue, and the ASISO facility in e-kuber that gets automatically triggered around midnight did not go through, so funds have not changed hands," a senior treasury official at a large private bank said.The central bank did not immediately reply to a Reuters' query seeking comment.The treasury officials declined to be named as they are not authorised to speak to media.
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2024 11:45 AM IST with headline  DGFT restricts gold jewellery imports from all countries except UAE is: 
 Representative image The Director General of Foreign trade (DGFT) has put import of gold jewellery of certain types under restricted category, according to a notification issued by the foreign trade body on June 11.The following categories have been put under restricted imports: gold studded with pearls, gold studded with diamonds of two categories of heading, gold studded with other precious and semi-precious stones, and gold parts.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe restriction will be applicable on the imports of the above-mentioned types of jewellery from all the countries, except from the UAE under Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA) between the two countries, according to the DGFT notification.Experts are citing the sudden rise in imports from countries like Tanzania and Indonesia as one of the reasons behind DGFT's decision, as these imports were creating distortion in the market.Gold prices have been under pressure in the last few days as investors US May inflation report set to be out later in the day and the Federal Reserve's policy announcement for insight into how soon it will cut interest rates.
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2024 10:13 AM IST with headline  RBI likely intervened in NDF to stop rupee from hitting record low, traders say is: 
 RBI likely intervened in NDF to stop rupee from hitting record low, traders say India's central bank likely intervened in the non-deliverable forward market before the local spot market opened on Wednesday, to prevent the rupee from dropping to an all-time low, six traders said.The rupee was at 83.5525 to the U.S. dollar, only marginally away from the 83.5750 all-time low it hit in April.Story continues below AdvertisementThe currency opened at 83.5450. It would have probably opened at a new low if not for the Reserve Bank of India's intervention, traders said.The RBI "hammered" dollar/rupee before the open, an fx salesperson at a private sector bank said.The central bank has regularly intervened in both the NDF and the local spot market to keep a check on the rupee
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2024 09:46 AM IST with headline  Will the world get a first glimpse of Modi 3.0 this Friday? is: 
 Prime Minister Narendra Modi HighlightsPM Modi may use the G7 opportunity to indicate India’s stance on different global issuesWorld leaders will be keen to hear Modi as India remains a key balancing factor in the new global orderModi’s re-election signals a likely continuity in India’s foreign policyClimate could top the G7 agenda and Modi will have to put across India’s views in no uncertain termsA bigger international clout will help bolster his domestic image tooNarendra Modi is no stranger to internationa
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2024 09:05 AM IST with headline  The depressing message from the Household Consumption survey is: 
 - The government’s Survey on Household Consumption Expenditure 2022-23 shows that the share of food in total household expenditure has been coming down over the years. The data show that it used to be 59.4 percent of household spending in 1999-2000, came down to 53.1 percent in 2004-05, to 52.9 percent in 2011-12 and now, for 2022-23, it’s down to 46.38 percent. That is entirely as expected, because, as people’s incomes go up, the proportion of their incom
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2024 09:20 AM IST with headline  Decoding Economics: India’s two hundred and fifty thousand democracies is: 
 - The recently-concluded general election has proved once again that India is a vibrant democracy. But perhaps many of us do not know how vibrant it really is. For, India is not just one democracy or a democracy of its 28 states. It’s actually 250,000 democracies. That is how the authors of a World Bank research paper, "Two hundred and fifty thousand democracies: A review of Village Government in India’’ describe it, rather brilliantly. The authors are Siddhart
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2024 08:11 AM IST with headline  Opening session of Parliament to see NDA weighing options for budget date, speaker election: Report is: 
 On June 27, President Droupadi Murmu is likely to address both houses. As the new NDA government assumes office and the timing of the opening session of Parliament attracts all attention, the administration is weighing two approaches, according a report in The Economic Times.The first option entails splitting the budget session into two. In this arrangement, the initial phase would include a recess, with the motion of thanks in the first segment and the budget presentation in the latter. A decision is expected soon, with the government reportedly favouring this divided session structure, according to the ET report.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA significant aspect of the first session of the 18th Lok Sabha will be the election of the Speaker. Despite lacking a majority, the BJP aims to retain this position. If the session is divided, the first part will consist of eight sittings from June 24 to July 3. A pro-tem speaker, typically the senior-most Lok Sabha member, will be appointed to administer the oath to the newly elected MPs over the first two days. The Speaker's election is proposed for June 26.Moneycontrol could not independently verify the news.On June 27, President Droupadi Murmu is likely to address both the Houses. The subsequent days, from June 28 to July 3, will be dedicated to debating the motion of thanks to the President's address. The Economic Survey is expected to be presented on July 3, followed by a recess. The second part of the session is likely to commence on July 22, with the Union budget presentation. This segment is expected to run until August 9, encompassing 15 sittings, the ET report added.
 
The news published on the date June 11, 2024 08:08 PM IST with headline  Wall St slips before inflation data, Fed decision; Apple rebounds is: 
 Wall St slips before inflation data, Fed decision; Apple rebounds Wall Street’s main indexes declined on Tuesday as caution dampened investor enthusiasm ahead of a crucial inflation reading and a policy announcement from the Federal Reserve expected this week.Shares of Apple recovered 2.1% to hit a record high after declining in the previous session following its long-awaited AI strategy, presented at a developer conference.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHowever, major banks including JPMorgan Chase & Co, Citigroup and Bank of America dropped over 2%, sending the broader banking index down to a seven-week low.The S&P 500 and the Nasdaq posted record closing highs on Monday in a choppy session, boosted by shares of Nvidia after its 10-for-one stock split.Markets are readying for Wednesday’s release of the Consumer Price Index report for May and the conclusion of the Fed’s two-day policy meeting.
 
The news published on the date June 10, 2024 05:51 PM IST with headline  Nvidia sparks chatter over possible Dow inclusion after stock split is: 
 Nvidia sparks chatter over possible Dow inclusion after stock split Nvidia's 10-for-1 stock split aimed at luring retail investors has taken effect, sparking speculation over chances of the artificial intelligence bellwether's inclusion in the blue-chip Dow index.The split, aimed at lowering per-share value to make it more affordable for employees and investors, increases the company's outstanding shares without changing the stock's valuation.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"A side-effect of Nvidia's stock split will be to put it in the running to follow Amazon and Apple into the Dow, potentially pushing out fellow chip stock Intel that currently has the lowest weighting," said Ben Laidler, global markets strategist at digital brokerage eToro.The stock dipped 0.5% in premarket trading on Monday, after climbing nearly 27% since the company announced the share split and a strong forecast last month. The dominant AI chip maker had also clinched $3 trillion in market value and surpassed Apple to become the second-most valuable firm in the world, trailing only Microsoft.Market analysts said stock splits tend to attract individual investors that trade in smaller lots and have lesser capital to deploy than institutional investors.
 
The news published on the date June 10, 2024 05:09 PM IST with headline  Renewable energy push likely to be insulated from coalition compulsions is: 
 India aims to achieve 50 percent cumulative installed power generation capacity from non-fossil fuel sources by 2030. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, sworn in for a third successive term on June 10, is likely to continue the push for renewable energy even as his government tries to balance India’s energy security and emission commitments, experts and industry players have said.RK Singh, who as the minister for power and new and renewable energy led the clean-energy push, lost the recently concluded Lok Sabha elections. His replacement is not known as portfolios are yet to be allocated to the 71-member council of ministers who took the oath of office along with Modi.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Last year, the government said that we have to add a capacity of 50 gigawatt of renewable energy every year. We are quite confident that there will be continuity even with the changes within the government with the percentage held by coalition partners changing,” JSW Energy chief executive officer and joint managing director Sharad Mahendra told Moneycontrol in an interview on June 10.In its previous term, the Centre said it aimed to achieve 50 percent cumulative installed power generation capacity from non-fossil fuel sources by 2030. India will have to add about 50 GW of renewable energy capacity annually over the next five years, beginning 2024, to meet the ambitious target.So far, India’s best performance has been 15 GW a year.
 
The news published on the date June 10, 2024 05:04 PM IST with headline  Modi 3.0 to usher in reforms with focus on taxation, rural economy, exports is: 
 PM Narendra Modi As the Modi government's third term begins and various ministries ready to roll out their 100-day agenda, a series of reforms are likely, with a focus on economic growth, taxation, infrastructure development, digital innovation and governance improvement. The upcoming July Union Budget is expected to be a major event, featuring numerous significant announcements.In order to clearly indicate the government’s focus on farmer welfare in its third term, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 10 signed his first file authorising the release of approximately Rs 20,000 crore for the 17th installment of the PM Kisan Nidhi for 9.3 crore farmers.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Ours is a government fully committed to Kisan Kalyan. It is therefore fitting that the first file signed on taking charge is related to farmer welfare. We want to keep working even more for the farmers and the agriculture sector in the times to come," stated PM Modi after signing the file.Boost exports: In the coming months and years, the government is expected to focus on the materialisation of more free trade agreements with major trading partners and blocs, including the UK, Oman and the European Union. With manufacturing being a top priority for the government to boost private investment and job creation, enhancing exports are expected to be in focus.Ease of doing business and tax reforms: The government is prioritising the decriminalisation of certain key legal provisions to enhance the ease of doing business. A working group with officials from the NITI Aayog and the Finance Ministry is already working on it.
 
The news published on the date June 10, 2024 04:42 PM IST with headline  Rupee falls 10 paise to close at 83.50 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee falls 10 paise to close at 83.50 against US dollar The rupee settled for the day lower by 10 paise at 83.50 (provisional) against the US dollar on Monday, following a rising American currency in overseas markets and a sluggish trend in domestic equities.Forex traders said the downside in the rupee was restricted by easing political uncertainties as Narendra Modi was sworn in as Prime Minister on Sunday for a record-equalling third term.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange, the local unit opened at 83.48 and settled for the day lower by 10 paise at 83.50 (provisional) against the American currency.On Friday, the rupee appreciated 13 paise to 83.40 against the US dollar."We expect the rupee to trade with a slight negative bias on strong US Dollar amid rising expectations of a delay in interest rate cut by the US Federal Reserve due to tight job market," said Anuj Choudhary, Research Analyst at Sharekhan by BNP Paribas.
 
The news published on the date June 10, 2024 03:37 PM IST with headline  Global markets mostly stumble following hotter-than-expected US jobs report is: 
 Global markets mostly stumble following hotter-than-expected US jobs report World stocks were mostly lower on Monday after a US jobs report released Friday came in hotter than expected, while the euro fell after French President Emmanuel Macron dissolved the National Assembly following a setback in Sunday's parliamentary election.Far-right parties made major gains in parliamentary elections Sunday, leading French President Emmanuel Macron to call a snap election. This caused the euro to drop to its lowest price in nearly a month. The euro was trading at $1.0766, down from $1.0778.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe setbacks for incumbent parties cast a shadow across the region. The CAC 40 in Paris sank 1.7% to 7,866.87 and Germany's DAX lost 0.7% to 18,425.26. Britain's FTSE 100 declined 0.4% to 8,215.84 in early trading.The future for the S&P 500 shed 0.1% and that for the Dow Jones Industrial Average was down 0.2%.Markets in Asia ended mixed. In Tokyo, the Nikkei 225 index rose 0.9% to 39,038.16 after government data on Monday showed Japan's economy contracted at an annualized 1.8% pace in January-March, an upward revision from the previously announced 2% drop.
 
The news published on the date June 10, 2024 03:05 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | How sunny is the FMCG outlook? is: 
 The markets have assumed there will be higher spending on welfare schemes, to combat supposed disenchantment among rural voters and meet demands of allies. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndia’s fast moving consumer goods sector (FMCG) was one of the clear winners in the 2024 surprise election verdict that saw the BJP return to power, but only with the help of allies as it failed to secure a majority on its own, unlike in the first two NDA terms.Its showing was seen as a plus for the FMCG sector, however. The markets have assumed there will be higher spending on welfare schemes, to combat supposed disenchantment among rural voters and meet demands of allies.In a month or so from now, when the full Budget is presented, it should become clear if indeed these considerations and coalition compulsions have changed the government’s fiscal policy stance. The spending so far has been tilted towards government capital expenditure, in a bid to create productive assets and keep inflationary fires under control. The government has also outlined its commitment to lower the fiscal deficit to GDP ratio as it seeks to exit the accommodative regime put in place during COVID years.But consumer confidence does appear to have got dented. And not just in rural areas, which companies have already been pointing out but also in urban areas, as my colleague Manas Chakravarty pointed out. The RBI’s consumer confidence survey for May points out a sharp drop in sentiment on current economic conditions, with 40.2 percent reporting their employment situation has deteriorated—more than those who believe it has improved, and on inflation too far more people believe it will increase in the next one year than those who believe it will decline. An increase in inflationary expectations is one of the reasons why the RBI left interest rates unchanged. Read here for more on consumer sentiment.
 
The news published on the date June 10, 2024 01:14 PM IST with headline  Modi-led NDA govt must tackle unemployment problem, especially in unorganised sector: Rajiv Kumar is: 
 Modi-led NDA govt must tackle unemployment problem, especially in unorganised sector: Rajiv Kumar Prime Minister Narendra Modi led-NDA government in its third term must tackle the problem of unemployment in the country, especially in the unorganised sector and in small and medium enterprises, former NITI Aayog Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar said on Monday.Kumar also emphasised that the government now must finalise the four labour codes as it has been delayed beyond expectations.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"We must recognise that post-COVID economic recovery has been a K-shaped recovery. I think the most important reforms that the Modi government must take is one to tackle the unemployment problem, especially in the unorganised and the small and medium enterprises," he told PTI in an interview.According to a recent International Labour Organization (ILO) report, the share of unemployed youths in India's total unemployed population was nearly 83 per cent in 2022."Therefore the large corporations have done very well and, and also those who are highly skilled have done well. But at the lower end, people are without jobs and firms are struggling to expand their capacity," the eminent economist said.
 
The news published on the date June 10, 2024 01:10 PM IST with headline  Modi 3.0: Industry seeks roadmap to cement India's lead in global digital arena, vows support is: 
 Modi 3.0: Industry seeks roadmap to cement India's lead in global digital arena, vows support Industry body DIPA has pledged its support to India's digital and telecom transformation under the new government and sought a clear roadmap that would cement the country's lead in digital infrastructure.Digital Infrastructure Providers Association (DIPA) said the industry is eager to collaborate with the government and contribute its expertise to drive the country's digital transformation further.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Revolutionary policies like Digital India, Gati Shakti, and PM WiFi Access Network have enabled widespread adoption of digital infrastructure, empowering individuals and businesses across sectors, from small vegetable vendors to grocery stores," Tilak Raj Dua, Director General of DIPA said.The telecom industry in India has undergone transformative reforms over the past few years under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership, he said expressing confidence that the new government "will build upon this momentum, ensuring the seamless implementation and sustained success of these landmark initiatives."According to DIPA, as the new government takes charge, the telecom industry is seeking a clear vision and roadmap to cement India's position as a global leader in digital infrastructure.
 
The news published on the date June 10, 2024 11:26 AM IST with headline  Chart of the Day | Global food inflation continues upward march is: 
 This upswing continues to be a risk to food inflation. There seems little respite in store for consumers as global food inflation continues to winch its way up. The FAO’s Food Price Index reached a level last seen in November, rising by 0.9 percent in May over a year ago and it rose for a third successive month. Since January 2024, the index is already up by 2.3 percent.(image) Two main contributors to the YoY increase are dairy and edible oils. Dairy is a source of concer
 
The news published on the date June 10, 2024 10:07 AM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Market Outlook | Markets rally strongly despite surprise election results, more upside likely is: 
 After falling nearly nine percent, the market rebounded impressively. The week concluded on a positive note, marked by significant market activity. After falling nearly nine percent from its high, the market rebounded impressively, recovering the entire loss within the last three days. This dramatic 2,000-point rally saw Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs) scrambling to cover their short positions.Despite this recovery, FIIs still hold a substantial short position of 192,842 contracts in the futures market, down from the peak level of 355,379 contracts. This lingering short position suggests potential further upside in the market, as FIIs will need to cover their positions if the rally continues.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe market's bounce was fuelled by the Narendra Modi-led coalition securing a third term by surpassing the halfway mark. However, concerns about the government's stability over the next five years may lead to a reduction in the premium of Indian markets compared to global peers in the coming months.Nonetheless, if the government succeeds in winning key state elections in the next few months, the market could gain more confidence and stability.A likely correction
 
The news published on the date June 07, 2024 03:38 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | With both growth and uncertainty higher, there’s no hurry to cut rates is: 
 It would be foolhardy to lower interest rates to neutral in the circumstances. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of the Reserve Bank of India may have decided to keep the policy rate unchanged in its meeting today, but the voting is now 4 to 2 instead of the 5 to 1 it was in April. Ashima Goyal has now voted for a 25 basis point rate cut and a change in the stance from ‘withdrawal of accommodation’ to ‘neutral’, joining Jayanth Varma, who had hitherto been in splendid isolation in calling for a rate cut.Why did these members call for a rate cut? The minutes of the MPC’s April meeting show that Varma believes that a real policy rate of 1-1.5 percent would be sufficient to bring inflation down to 4 percent. With RBI projecting retail inflation at 4.5 percent in Q4 of the current fiscal year, the real policy rate now stands at 6 percent, which Varma has said “imposes significant costs on the economy”.Goyal too had said real interest rates were too high at the April MPC meeting, but had said at the time: “In the current situation of many types of uncertainty, however, maintaining stability must have priority.” That was the reason she had voted against a change in the repo rate at that point. Now that she has changed her mind, we will know the reasons when the minutes of the meeting are published.
 
The news published on the date June 07, 2024 01:07 PM IST with headline  Market back to pre-exit poll levels is: 
 Around 23 Sensex stocks and 36 Nifty stocks are trading higher than before the exit polls Among Nifty blue chip stocks, Hindustan Unilever leads with a gain of over 9 percent from its exit poll level, followed by Hero MotoCorp with an 8 percent gain In a swift bounce-back following the carnage of June 4, the stock market has recouped all losses with the total market cap of all listed companies climbing to Rs 421.47 lakh crore on June 7, which was above the aggregated market cap recorded on May 31, the day before the exit poll-led big surge.Currently, the Sensex and Nifty are trading at 76,400 points and 23,200 points, respectively, versus pre-exit poll levels of 73,961 and 22,530 points, respectively. The flagship indices are respectively just 300 points and 100 points away from their June 3 levels.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTwenty-three of the 30 Sensex stocks and 36 of the 50 that make up the Nifty are trading higher than before the exit polls Among Nifty blue-chip stocks, Hindustan Unilever leads with a gain of over 9 percent from its exit poll level, followed by Hero MotoCorp with an 8 percent gain. Mahindra & Mahindra, Tata Consumer Products, Tech Mahindra and Bajaj Auto are also up over 7 percent each.On the downside, PSU stocks and Adani Group stocks are the top laggards. BPCL leads the losers, down 7 percent, followed by Adani Enterprises and Adani Ports & SEZ, which fell by 6.6 percent and 5.9 percent, respectively, from exit poll levels. L&T is down 5 percent, while ONGC and Coal India are down nearly 4 percent each. Power Grid Corp and NTPC are both down around 3 percent.Out of the 2235 stocks listed on NSE, 1113 are trading higher than before the exit polls, while the remaining 1122 are still below exit poll levels. Among them, 71 stocks are trading over 10 percent higher, 196 stocks are trading higher between 5-10 percent, and 846 stocks are trading between 0-5 percent higher.
 
The news published on the date June 07, 2024 01:05 PM IST with headline  The hunt for truly alternative investments — from alligators to concrete is: 
 These unconventional investments may well help in this regard, though long-term pricing data to test their robustness may be lacking. Alan LivseyIn the hot, humid wetlands of the Deep South you’ll find the highest concentration of alligator farms in the US. Some are home to more than 100,000 of the writhing, snapping reptiles, which can grow over 12ft in length and weigh half a ton. Most will end up as luxury bags and watch straps.Not everyone would consider investing in alligator farms, but for a time, Chris Heller was toying with the idea of putting $10mn int
 
The news published on the date June 07, 2024 12:42 PM IST with headline  India’s political reset won’t kill growth is: 
 Growth The spike in volatility in Indian markets this week portends the triumph of politics over economics after a 10-year hiatus.Narendra Modi met leaders of the parties that make up his National Democratic Alliance Wednesday. For the first time since he became chief minister of the western state of Gujarat in 2001 — or prime minister in 2014 — he needs allies to stake his claim on power.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRight up to Monday, zooming asset prices were signaling a comfortable victory for Modi. Not only was the muscular Hindu right-wing leader going to return for a third term, his mandate might even allow him to change the constitution. When votes were counted Tuesday, markets had a heart attack. Forget turning the secular republic into a Hindu nation, his Bharatiya Janata Party, or BJP, doesn’t have the numbers to form a majority government. Modi will only head a coalition administration, for which he may be temperamentally unsuited.Voters couldn’t care less about his discomfiture, or for the volatility in financial markets. They want a toning down of BJP’s religious polarization and an emphasis on pro-labor policies: more jobs and better incomes. Without those, 8%-plus economic growth is an empty slogan.For providers of capital, though, Modi’s shrinking halo is far from good news. India’s risk premium is lower than most other emerging markets. Don’t be surprised if that premium — the extra return investors expect for their additional risk — goes up.
 
The news published on the date June 07, 2024 12:29 PM IST with headline  OPEC + Extends Production Cuts: Market dynamics and future of oil prices is: 
 Has OPEC Plus lost its capacity to influence oil prices? Unlikely. The group accounts for almost 40 percent of world oil production. The meeting of the OPEC Plus group of countries on 2nd June decided to extend the existing cut in crude oil production of 3.85 million barrels per day further till September to December 2025. The oil cartel affects changes in the production level of 23 members of OPEC and non-OPEC countries periodically to ‘support the stability and balance of oil markets’. Going beyond the rhetoric, the purpose of the group, like all cartels, is to keep prices high.If this is indeed the raison d’être of the group, did the extension of the cut achieve its purpose? The price of Brent oil fell sharply by $3.91 per barrel on 4th June. There was a sharper decline of $3.94 per barrel in the price of West Texas Intermediate (WTI) which reflects the US market conditions. The price of the Indian crude oil basket dropped from $ 80.65 per barrel on June 3 to $77.43 next day. Has OPEC Plus lost its capacity to influence oil prices? Unlikely. The group accounts for almost 40 percent of world oil production.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe market may have read OPEC’s decision to extend the production cuts well into next year as a signal that demand will remain weak, despite the group’s assertion that it will pick up. The geopolitical tensions in the Middle East have subsided as the Iran-Israel clash was contained after one round. Though the Gaza war shows no sign of early end, this part of the Middle East does not produce oil. The US Fed’s decision to keep the interests high could also have been a factor. High interest rates mean that economic activities will remain weak. There is also a fourth possibility. Despite OPEC’s decision to curtail production since last year, some members may be cheating and producing above their quota.Factors Effecting OPEC’s Decision The statement issued by the 37th meeting of OPEC plus countries suggests that production beyond the quota or voluntary cuts is indeed a factor. It welcomes the ‘pledges made by the Republic of Iraq, the Russian Federation, and the Republic of Kazakhstan to achieve full conformity and resubmit the updated compensation schedule’. The exhortation to ‘full conformity’ relates to the production levels agreed. Any member overproducing has to ‘compensate’ in terms of future production levels. This advice was there in the earlier OPEC statements of April and March also. The OPEC has also asked for an assessment by three independent sources of the production levels. This indicates that divergent claims of production levels have become an issue as the production cuts may not necessarily boost prices, but affect the revenue stream of member states. Different member states may have their internal or external compulsions. Russia for instance not only has defense expenditure to meet, but according to the Western media may have diverted more production for exports as domestic refining capacity is partially damaged by Ukrainian attacks.
 
The news published on the date June 07, 2024 12:04 PM IST with headline  RBI MPC Highlights: Repo rate unchanged at 6.5%, GDP growth projected at 7.2% for FY25
 
The news published on the date June 07, 2024 10:58 AM IST with headline  MC Inside Edge: Bulls look for Naidu angle, founders don’t want to be promoters, Biocon on a tear, coalition concerns is: 
 Know about all major deals and all the inner goings-on from Dalal Street. The big drawModi may be a long standing favourite of Dalal Street bulls , but for the moment it is companies perceived to have friendly relations with TDP boss Chandrababu Naidu that are in demand.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOther than some of the obvious names like Heritage Foods, some HNIs are also said to have been building positions in stocks like Tilaknagar Industries and Jain Irrigation. The Honey-tongued fund manager turned ultra-HNI is said to be one of the big bulls in the Tilaknagar stock, while another Mumbai-based operator is said to have resumed his activity in Jain Irrigation. The stock had seen a 50 percent jump in the second half of 2023, but is struggling to find takers at higher levels.Booster shot
 
The news published on the date June 07, 2024 10:41 AM IST with headline  RBI projects real GDP growth at 7.2% for FY25 is: 
 RBI governor Shaktikanta Das The Reserve Bank of India on June 7 raised projection of real gross domestic product for the financial year 2024-25 to 7.2 percent, from 7 percent estimated previously, governor Shaktikanta Das.The governor said the GDP growth in the first quarter is likely to be at 7.3 percent, 7.2 percent in Q2, 7.3 percent in Q3 and 7.2 percent in the last quarter, Das said during the monetary policy committee’s (MPC's) press briefing on June 7.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIf the growth projection stands true for the the current year, it will be the 4th straight year of growth above 7 percent, Das said.Follow RBI Monetary Policy 2024 LIVE updates here"Domestic economic activity in FY25 to remain resilient... India's manufacturing PMI showing strength and it is currently the highest globally," the governor said.
 
The news published on the date June 07, 2024 09:44 AM IST with headline  New Indian govt won't increase borrowing in July budget, says Kotak Mahindra Bank is: 
 New Indian govt won't increase borrowing in July budget, says Kotak Mahindra Bank Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × A weaker majority for the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led alliance may increase welfare spending but not result in additional borrowing, limiting a rise in bond yields, a top executive at India's Kotak Mahindra Bank said.Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party failed to get an outright majority in the recently concluded parliamentary elections, making them dependent on support from regional parties to form a government.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThat raised concerns that the new government will take populist measures, which will increase spending and could, in turn, see additional borrowing pressure."I do not expect the government to raise gross borrowing for the current financial year in the final budget as they have received an unexpectedly large amount as dividend from the Reserve Bank of India," said Rajeev Mohan, president of treasury and global markets at Kotak Mahindra Bank, the country's fourth largest private lender in terms of assets.The Indian government will table the final budget for this year before end of July.
 
The news published on the date June 07, 2024 09:08 AM IST with headline  Chart of the Day: India Inc’s balance sheet position best in a decade is: 
 Finance The balance sheet health of the listed companies improved to the best levels in a decade in FY24. Aggregate net debt to EBITDA of 316 companies of the BSE 500 companies that have released results so far improved to 1.2 times in FY24, shows data collated by Nomura research. The ratio is the lowest in more than 10 years.(image) The leverage ratio improved on the rise in earnings and judicious mix of investments in the past severa
 
The news published on the date June 05, 2024 09:08 AM IST with headline  How to pivot trade policy to make India a global export hub is: 
 Representative image HighlightsBolstering external trade should be a priority for the new governmentExternal trade helps to enhance India’s global cloutIt also helps to generate employment and demand within the domestic economyIndia’s current trade trajectory is a bit wobbly and targets look stiffEffective integration with GVCs can enhance India’s tradeTariffs have to be lowered and logistical and regulatory hurdles have to be addressedTrade agreements, bilateral and plurilateral, should be pursuedPursuing economic growth of the most populous country of the world
 
The news published on the date June 05, 2024 08:20 AM IST with headline  Which stocks are better placed to play the mass consumption theme? is: 
 FMCG sector outperform broad market index Highlights - Quarterly performance largely backed by improved realisations - Medium-term triggers China plus and protectionist measures for tyre industry - Valuations not inexpensive; but improved medium-term outlook HighlightsSteady improvement in macro indicatorsVolume growth trends across key FMCG players show sluggishnessStrong seasonal tailwinds and expanding rural penetrationVolume recovery could aid valuationPrivate consumption has been under pressure in the last few years due to weak rural demand and the change in spending preferences of the high to middle income working class towards discretionary products.The FMCG sector’s volume growth has been sluggish, and has grown at a four- year CAGR (compounded annual growth rate) of around
 
The news published on the date June 05, 2024 07:04 AM IST with headline  Lok Sabha election results: Nomura says India's economic fundamentals remain robust is: 
 Lok Sabha election results: Nomura says India's economic fundamentals remain robust India's economic fundamentals remain robust, investment bank Nomura said on Wednesday after the results of the country's general elections paved the way for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's third consecutive term in office.Modi is poised to form the government for a third consecutive term with the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) getting a majority in the Lok Sabha, notwithstanding crushing losses in three Hindi heartland states after a bitterly fought election that was projected as a referendum on his popularity.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Election Commission of India has declared results for all 543 Lok Sabha constituencies, with the BJP winning 240 seats and the Congress 99."Our assessment is that India's economic fundamentals remain robust. Reforms in India have generally survived the test of politics and we expect the government to continue the pace of governance and administrative reforms, leaving states to work around the more intractable reforms around land and labour," Nomura said.While near-term uncertainty is high and the political backdrop is slightly different, the broader direction of reforms, macros and the economy remain unchanged, it added.
 
The news published on the date June 04, 2024 08:39 PM IST with headline  Election Results: 'People of India Have Rejected the Dictatorial Govt': Maha Congress
 
The news published on the date June 04, 2024 06:11 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama: Thin margin for NDA spooks investors is: 
 The key for investors to watch out for is stock valuations. Steep falls like this do offer an opportunity for investors to buy quality stocks at lower prices and hold them for long term returns Dear Reader,Stock markets were anticipating a landslide victory for the NDA in the 2024 general elections, but Tuesday's counting gave them a rude jolt. The benchmark stock market indices Nifty and Sensex plunged after early results indicated a lower-than-expected majority for the NDA.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Congress-led I.N.D.I.A alliance gained significant ground in the Lok Sabha elections. However, with the opposition alliance still falling short of the majority mark in the Lok Sabha, the NDA may retain power at the Centre. At 2:20 pm, the NDA alliance was leading in 292 Lok Sabha seats, slightly higher than the simple majority of 272 seats, while the BJP was leading in 238 seats. If these numbers hold when the final results are declared, the BJP will not attain majority on its own compared to the previous term when it had 303 seats, but it can return to power with the support of its alliance partners. The return of an NDA government should mean policy continuity, even though the pulls of coalition politics can extract a toll on governance.The loss of ground in crucial states of Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra will lead to a policy rethink and may warrant more pro poor and pro farmer measures. Note that states such as Maharashtra and Karnataka are facing a drought.“While it is still early days, it is very apparent that the stress in rural India and overall mass consumption will garner higher focus,” writes Madhuchanda Dey in this piece.
 
The news published on the date June 04, 2024 02:19 PM IST with headline  Why these housing finance stocks should be on your radar, even if a new government with a reduced majority comes to power is: 
 Housing Finance stocks that will benefit after the elections Highlights - Quarterly performance largely backed by improved realisations - Medium-term triggers China plus and protectionist measures for tyre industry - Valuations not inexpensive; but improved medium-term outlook HighlightsThe boost to housing will continue as the sector has a multiplier effect on other parts of the economyHuge capital required to fund growth in the housing spaceAffordable housing finance will be a focus area as it addresses the need at the bottom of the pyramidHousing Finance companies are well placed to benefitMany stocks have overreacted to the likelihood of NDA’s win with a reduced majority compared to its current termThe election outcome is not final ye
 
The news published on the date June 04, 2024 01:50 PM IST with headline  New government's focus should shift to renewable project mix is: 
 As state electricity boards and power distribution companies (discoms) face electricity shortages during peak demand hours, the focus is slowly turning to power generation capacities that can meet peak power demand The first two terms of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led NDA government were marked by rapid expansion of the renewable energy generation capacities. From less than 3,500 megawatt (MW) in FY10-FY14, annual average renewable power generation installations increased to 11,400 MW in the first two terms of the Modi government. The massive capacity additions have helped improve renewable power generation and meet incremental demand to some extent.However, as electricity demand rises during the evening peak hours (6-1
 
The news published on the date June 04, 2024 11:31 AM IST with headline  An eight-point agenda to green the economy is: 
 Within five months of assuming power, the new government will have to articulate its strategy for a cleaner environment at the annual global climate meet in Azerbaijan. (Representative image) HighlightsPolitical parties hardly gave priority to climate issues in poll campaignHowever, climate action plan has to be a priority for the new governmentIndia will have to articulate its climate strategy at the Baku summit in NovemberIndia’s pace of RE capacity addition and other climate measures need to be enhancedThe new government must have the political will to chart the correct climate courseClimate challenges hardly found a mention in the speeches of political leaders during their recent Lo
 
The news published on the date June 03, 2024 10:15 PM IST with headline  Remove '100% fruit juice' claim from labels and ads: FSSAI to food business operators is: 
 This regulation states that products covered by this standard must be labelled in accordance with the Food Safety and Standards (Labelling and Display) Regulations, 2020 Food regulator FSSAI has asked food business operators to immediately remove claims of 100 per cent fruit juices in advertisements as well as labels on packaged products.According to an official statement, Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has issued a "directive mandating all Food Business Operators (FBOs) to remove any claim of '100% fruit juices' from the labels and advertisements of reconstituted fruit juices with an immediate effect.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAccording to an official statement, Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has issued a "directive mandating all Food Business Operators (FBOs) to remove any claim of '100% fruit juices' from the labels and advertisements of reconstituted fruit juices with an immediate effect.Food regulator, Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) on 3 June has issued a directive mandating all Food Business Operators (FBOs) to remove any claim of ‘100% fruit juices’ from the labels and advertisements of reconstituted fruit juices with an immediate effect. All the FBOs have also been instructed to exhaust all existing pre-printed packaging materials before 1st September, 2024."It has come to the attention of FSSAI that several FBOs have been inaccurately marketing various types of reconstituted fruit juices by claiming them to be 100% fruit juices. Upon thorough examination, FSSAI has concluded that, according to the Food Safety and Standards (Advertising and Claims) Regulations, 2018, there is no provision for making a ‘100%’ claim," the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said in a statement
 
The news published on the date June 03, 2024 04:34 PM IST with headline  Inflation feels bad to US consumers no matter how you define it is: 
 Most Americans still see it as a major problem, while most economists don’t. (Source: Bloomberg) The people who experience the US economy continue to disagree with the people who measure it, and the most likely reason is inflation: Most Americans still see it as a major problem, while most economists don’t. But this debate recently veered from economics to semantics. Has the common definition of “inflation” changed, and do economists just need to accept it?Felix Salmon of Axios essentially answers yes to both questions. “The meaning of the word ‘inflation’ has changed” he writes. “It used to mean rising prices; now it means high prices.” This helps explain, he says, the disconnect between Americans’ perceptions of the economy and economists’ assessment of it.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdI would answer no to both questions, and not because I am an economist. Both people and economists — and I might point out that there is 100 percent overlap between these two groups — agree on what inflation is. The confusing part has to do with timing.According to Merriam-Webster, inflation is “a continuing rise in the general price level.” When Americans complain that prices are high, they are implicitly comparing prices now to those of 2021, when inflation took off. When economists point out that “inflation” is lower, they are implicitly comparing prices now to 12 months ago.Both time frames are informative, and prices rose in both periods, so both are inflation. Redefining “inflation” is unnecessary and counterproductive when all we need to do is make the implicit parts explicit.
 
The news published on the date May 31, 2024 09:10 PM IST with headline  What were the drivers of GDP growth in Q4? is: 
 Manufacturing contributed slightly more than a quarter of total GVA growth in Q4. HighlightsQ4 GDP growth at 7.8 percent much higher than estimatesYear-on-year growth in private consumption in Q4 was 3.99 percent, around the same as Q3’s 4.03 percentYear-on-year growth in the March 2024 quarter was driven by gross capital formation, which contributed 36.9 percent of the total growthGVA growth was 6.27 percent year-on-year in the March 2024 quarterManufacturing contributed slightly more than a quarter of total GVA growth in Q4Agriculture sector growth was a mere 0.57 percent year-on-year i
 
The news published on the date May 31, 2024 08:53 PM IST with headline  India's blockbuster FY24 GDP growth is just the trailer: PM Modi is: 
 PM Modi Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 31 said that the Q4 GDP growth data for 2023-24 shows robust momentum in Indian economy which is poised to further accelerate.In a post on X (formerly Twitter) PM Modi also thanked the hardworking people of the country saying, "8.2% growth for the year 2023-24 exemplifies that India continues to be the fastest growing major economy globally. As I’ve said, this is just a trailer of things to come.."The Q4 GDP growth data for 2023-24 shows robust momentum in our economy which is poised to further accelerate. Thanks to the hardworking people of our country, 8.2% growth for the year 2023-24 exemplifies that India continues to be the fastest growing major economy globally. As…Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) May 31, 2024India's gross domestic product (GDP) grew at a faster-than-expected year-on-year rate in the January-March quarter, helped by government spending and resilient consumer demand. Economists expect the momentum to remain strong this year.The full-year 2023-24 GDP growth has been revised upwards to 8.2 percent from the second advance estimate of 7.6 percent, data released by the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation on May 31 showed.
 
The news published on the date May 31, 2024 08:03 PM IST with headline  Dalal Street prepares for counting day: Take a look at the biggest market calls for June 4 is: 
 While there is significant anticipation around the results, the consensus suggests that policy continuity is crucial for sustaining market stability and growth. As India approaches the pivotal counting day on June 4, market experts and investors are keenly watching the outcomes of the Lok Sabha elections. Key voices from the financial sector have shared their insights and predictions on how the election results might impact the markets.Ian Bremmer: Confidence in India's Stability and GrowthStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIan Bremmer, the American political scientist and author, anticipates that India's continued rise represents one of the global economy's 'green shoots.' He believes there will be 'surprise and bewilderment' if Prime Minister Narendra Modi does not secure another term. Bremmer’s Eurasia Group predicts the BJP will win 305 seats (±10 seats), reinforcing his view that India's economic and democratic stability will persist under Modi’s leadership.Mark Mobius: Optimism in Infrastructure InvestmentRenowned investor Mark Mobius is optimistic about Narendra Modi's potential third term. Mobius foresees a continuation of Modi’s policies, particularly benefiting infrastructure-related stocks. He told CNBC International, "Infrastructure is going to see a good push going forward," while also contemplating the unlikely but significant impact if Modi gains enough seats to amend the constitution.
 
The news published on the date May 31, 2024 08:03 PM IST with headline  GDP growth surpasses estimates at 7.8% in Q4; FY24 tops 8% is: 
 India Q4 GDP Highlights: India had clocked 8.4 percent GDP in the three months ended December 31, 2023. India's gross domestic product (GDP) growth surpassed all expectations and stood at 7.8 percent in the January-March quarter, though slower versus 8.4 percent in the third quarter. The full-year 2023-24 GDP growth has been revised upwards to 8.2 percent from the second advance estimate of 7.6 percent, data released by the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation on May 31 showed.A survey of economists by Moneycontrol estimated Q4 GDP growth to slow down to 6.5-6.7 percent from 8.4 percent in the three months ended December 31, 2023. The survey showed 2023-24 GDP at 7.7-7.8 percent percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPrime Minister Narendra Modi noted that Q4GDP growth "exemplifies that India continues to be the fastest growing major economy globally."The Q4 GDP growth data for 2023-24 shows robust momentum in our economy which is poised to further accelerate. Thanks to the hardworking people of our country, 8.2% growth for the year 2023-24 exemplifies that India continues to be the fastest growing major economy globally. As…— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) May 31, 2024The blowout GDP data will be roundly cheered by India's policymakers, with the government's chief economic adviser V Anantha Nageswaran earlier this month saying that there was a high possibility of India’s economic growth touching 8 percent in in FY24.
 
The news published on the date May 31, 2024 03:58 PM IST with headline  Business in the Week Ahead: June 3-7 is: 
 Planner It will be an action-packed week. Results of the 7-phase General Elections will be declared on Tuesday, June 4. The results will be closely tracked, given its influence over the future policy direction. S&P Global, which revised its India sovereign rating outlook to positive, expects broad continuity in economic reforms and fiscal policies, regardless of the election outcome.The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will decide on interest rates and monetary policy. Across the globe the European Centra
 
The news published on the date May 31, 2024 03:38 PM IST with headline  The Reading List: May 31, 2024 is: 
 Articles and social media gems from the world of economy, business and finance. In a world strapped for time, we thought you may find it useful to have a selection of articles we read this past week. As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. Occasionally, we may stray from these subjects.These links may be from external websites we frequent o
 
The news published on the date May 31, 2024 03:13 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | A report card like none other is: 
 An analysis of a report card like none other: that of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.The earnings season has almost wound down with most Indian firms having released their quarterly performance for investors to assess. The winners and losers have already been picked out in the market with very little surprises this time. But we are about to analyse a report card like none other: that of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe RBI released its Annual Report on May 30 and besides giving the details of what the central bank was up to in FY24, the report is an omnibus of the RBI’s policy measures, its intentions for the period ahead as well as its updated assessment of the economy. All these make it a formidable report card, perhaps one that can be stretched to even reflect the economy at large.Here is what happened in FY24 for the RBI. The central bank’s income rose 17 percent, mainly driven by its interest income that it gets through its lending operations to the government and the banking sector. It also gets interest income from investments into foreign securities (note the US treasury bond yields had surged in the past year) and from its domestic investments (not so much as Indian government bond yields eased).In short, the central bank’s income was boosted because its peer, the US Federal Reserve, preferred to keep policy rates higher for longer. Its expenditure isn’t much because all the RBI spends is on printing currency notes, fixed assets maintenance and nominal business expenses. Its biggest expense is setting aside money for potential hits on its investment book which is huge. But for FY24, even this provisioning was very low as it generated big gains through its forex operations. Keeping the rupee stable doesn’t just benefit the economy, it also generates income for the central bank.Do refer to our Chart of the Day that explains how the central bank churned out that record Rs 2.1 trillion dividend to the elation of the government and the markets. In all, the RBI’s balance sheet expanded 11 percent for the year. As such, its balance sheet has grown roughly 70 percent between June 2019 and March 2024.
 
The news published on the date May 31, 2024 02:36 PM IST with headline  S&P Global to observe India's fiscal glidepath for ratings upgrade: Analyst is: 
 S&P Global to observe India's fiscal glidepath for ratings upgrade: Analyst S&P Global Ratings will watch the incoming Indian government's fiscal consolidation path for the next two years for a possible sovereign ratings upgrade, an analyst at the ratings agency said on Friday.S&P raised India's sovereign rating outlook to "positive" from "stable" on Wednesday, citing the country's strong economic fundamentals. However it kept the rating itself at "BBB-".Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Within the next two years, we are closely observing whether the depiction of the government's fiscal consolidation path will carry on," Yeefarn Phua, director - sovereign and international public finance ratings, said in a webinar in answer to a question.India aims to narrow its fiscal deficit to 4.50% of gross domestic product by the end of 2025/26, from an expected 5.8% in 2023/24.S&P said that the Reserve Bank of India's surplus transfer to the government for 2023-24 will help it improve its fiscal position.
 
The news published on the date May 31, 2024 02:34 PM IST with headline  Affordable housing to stay out of reach in major economies due to lack of supply: Poll is: 
 Affordable housing to stay out of reach in major economies due to lack of supply: Poll Major economies grappling with housing crises will struggle to crank up the supply of affordable homes in coming years, according to a Reuters poll of property analysts who said more government intervention was needed to improve the situation.House prices in most major property markets were forecast to rise over 4% this year thanks to supply lags and expectations that top central banks will cut rates soon. That is a relatively modest appreciation as property values are already very high.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAn acute lack of starter homes, a perennial problem made worse during the COVID-19 pandemic, was not likely to be addressed anytime soon, according to experts polled May 9-30 across markets in the U.S., Canada, Britain, Germany, India, Australia and New Zealand.That suggests most new homebuyers will have to stretch further or consider waiting even longer to save up enough of a deposit to own a home.A 93% majority of analysts, 90 of 97, said the pace of supply of affordable housing will fall short of demand, with more than one-third expecting demand to fall far short.
 
The news published on the date May 31, 2024 07:54 PM IST with headline  India Q4 GDP Highlights: Economy tops 8% in FY24; FM says growth momentum to continue in third term of PM Modi
 
The news published on the date May 30, 2024 10:39 AM IST with headline  Eight years on, recoveries through insolvency code remain disappointing is: 
 More than 7 years on, IBC is still slower, weaker HighlightsRecoveries through IBC in FY24 were 32 percent, and financial creditors lost 68 percent of their claimsThe time taken to reach a resolution is now 863 days instead of the original 330 days envisagedIBC has continued to be slow and ineffective due to litigations, dissenting creditors and poor infrastructureThe NCLT is operating below sanctioned strength of 63 members, though benches have been increasedThe government must fix issues bogging down the IBC process quickly lest it squanders th
 
The news published on the date May 30, 2024 07:42 AM IST with headline  S&P holds out a carrot for India, but with conditions is: 
 Interestingly, despite the rise in government capex, the S&P projections don’t show any increase in the investment/GDP ratio It took rating agency S&P 14 years to upgrade India’s sovereign credit rating outlook from BBB-/stable to BBB-/ positive. It was back in 2010 when the rating agency had raised the outlook from negative to stable.This time, though, S&P has held out a promise to move far more rapidly. It has said, ‘continued policy stability, deepening economic reforms, and high infrastructure investment will sustain long-term growth prospects. That, along with cautious fiscal and monetary policy that diminishe
 
The news published on the date May 30, 2024 07:26 AM IST with headline  India set for wheat imports after six years, to shore up reserves is: 
 India set for wheat imports after six years, to shore up reserves India is poised to begin wheat imports after a six-year gap, to replenish depleted reserves and hold down prices that leaped following three years of disappointing crops, sources say, as the approaching end of general elections removes a key hurdle.New Delhi is expected to abandon a 40% tax on wheat imports this year, officials and other sources told Reuters, paving the way for private traders and flour millers to buy from producers such as top exporter Russia, albeit in modest volumes.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAs the new-season wheat harvest rolls in, the government is likely to wait until after June to scrap the import tax, in time for Russia's harvest, the sources said.While New Delhi's import requirements are not huge, they could help lift global prices. Benchmark wheat prices in Chicago jumped this week to their highest in 10 months, before edging lower on Wednesday as hopes for rain in parched Russian sowing areas led investors to lock in profits.Despite the recent surge in global wheat prices, fuelled by worries that adverse weather conditions could cut output in Russia, industry insiders said duty-free imports were viable.
 
The news published on the date May 29, 2024 03:43 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Will this elephant dance? is: 
 One may argue that LIC’s large size inhibits its growth rates. Dear Reader,Life Insurance Corp (LIC) has been a dud on the stock markets. The stock dropped below the IPO price in its first year of trading and is up less than one-fifth from its listing level. Shares of fellow public insurer SBI Life Insurance did exceptionally well during the period—up 36 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe underperformance can be explained by lacklustre showing of the LIC. The company lagged private peers on growth rates and ceded market share, as my colleague Aparna Iyer points out in this piece.One may argue that LIC’s large size inhibits its growth rates. But note that LIC has unique advantages—deep industry understanding, brand recall, a large sales force and unparalleled reach in villages and towns.Companies in the private sector put to work their competitive advantages to reap benefits and remained on top of their games. Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) and Hindustan Unilever (HUL) are some of the examples.
 
The news published on the date May 29, 2024 01:37 PM IST with headline  Some Indian asset recast firms circumventing rules, says RBI deputy governor is: 
 Some Indian asset recast firms circumventing rules, says RBI deputy governor Some Indian asset reconstruction companies (ARCs) have been circumventing regulations and have allowed themselves to be used for the evergreening of distressed assets, a deputy governor at the Reserve Bank of India said in a recent speech.The RBI has increased supervision of regulated entities to prevent systemic risks and to ensure that regulations are followed.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSwaminathan J. addressed a conference in Mumbai for directors and CEOs of ARCs, as a part of the central bank's supervisory engagement programme earlier this month but the RBI uploaded the full speech on its website on Wednesday."Some ARCs, while enjoying the full benefits of the special position granted to them... have been found to be using innovative ways to structure transactions in a manner to circumvent regulations," Swaminathan said."During the course of our onsite examinations, we have come across instances where ARCs have been used or allowed themselves to be used, if I may say so, as a conduit to evergreen distressed assets."
 
The news published on the date May 29, 2024 12:45 PM IST with headline  India's GDP growth may have moderated to 6.5% in January-March is: 
 India's gross domestic product (GDP) grew 8.4 percent in the December quarter. India's gross domestic product or GDP growth likely declined to 6.5-6.7 percent in January-March from 8.4 percent the previous quarter, a Moneycontrol survey of nine economists showed.India's GDP had grown over 8 percent in the previous three quarters of 2023-24.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe government is to release the GDP figures for the fourth quarter (January-March 2024) and the provisional estimates for the 2023-24 fiscal year on May 31.In its second advance estimate, the statistics ministry had pegged GDP growth for the financial year 2023-24 at 7.6 percent. Economists polled by Moneycontrol see this being raised to 7.7-7.8 percent on May 31.The Q4 predictions from various agencies consistently indicate a downturn compared to the preceding three quarters.
 
The news published on the date May 29, 2024 12:27 PM IST with headline  From the baby boom to the baby bust is: 
 What explains this collapse in fertility rates? Martin WolfPeople live longer than ever before. This, as I noted recently, has created both opportunities and challenges. But postponing death is only a part of the demographic story. The other is the decline in births. The combination of the two is creating huge changes in the world we inhabit.The notion of a “demographic transition” is almost a century old. Human societies used to have roughly stable populations, with high mortality matched by high fertility. In Englan
 
The news published on the date May 29, 2024 11:15 AM IST with headline  Private credit and mini-millionaires don’t mix is: 
 Private credit funds are in a much better place than real estate trusts, which are beset with higher mortgage costs and a global commercial property downturn. As fundraising from pension and endowment funds slows, private credit managers have set their eyes on wealthy individuals. The success of the $54 billion Blackstone Private Credit Fund, which launched less than four years ago, prompted the likes of Blue Owl Capital Inc to establish their own versions. And they’re setting lofty growth targets. Ares Management Corp, for instance, is planning to expand its assets under management by almost 75 percent to $750 billion by 2028, with a good chunk of the money expected from retail.The pitch to the mini-millionaires is simple — they don’t need to worry about public markets’ extreme fluctuations. But is the $1.7 trillion industry ready for a new clientele that might be more flighty and — gasp — ready to air their grievances in public if a fund’s performance is underwhelming?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTo lure private wealth, new funds are allowing people to withdraw money at regular intervals, as opposed to the more traditional closed-ended structures where institutional investors’ capital is locked up for the life of the fund, which can last a decade. Stakeholders in Blackstone Inc.’s private credit fund, for instance, can redeem up to 5 percent of total net asset value each quarter, per board approval.Still, there’s a question over whether it’s a good idea to sell illiquid investment strategies to a group of people who are not as patient as, say endowment funds. Blackstone’s real estate trust for wealthy individuals spent a good chunk of 2023 curbing withdrawals and ensuring shareholders that this strategy “worked as intended.” Last week, Starwood Real Estate Income Trust’s decision to scale back redemptions and avoid property fire sales was another reminder that individual investors hate to see their money trapped for a long time.
 
The news published on the date May 29, 2024 09:28 AM IST with headline  What are the tricks of the trade to clinch FTAs? is: 
 Continuity and uniformity in policy approach key to effective FTA negotiation. (Representative image) HighlightsA two-day Chintan Shivir held recently discussed SOPs to negotiate FTAsThere was broad-based participation and discussions were held on wide-ranging issuesParticipants voiced the need for sharing data and information among all stakeholdersContinuity and uniformity in policy approach key to effective FTA negotiationAn exclusive institutional framework needs to be worked out to handle trade talks India’s tryst with trade talks is turning out to be tricky. While it remains actively engaged with several trading partners for comprehensive agreements, fina
 
The news published on the date May 29, 2024 08:58 AM IST with headline  Decoding Economics: Do umpires play with a straight bat? is: 
 The paper says that judgments and decisions are often biased in favour of one’s national and social identity. (Representational image) Apparently, there is much in the game of cricket that endears itself to economists. Not in the ordinary way, of course---it’s not the thrill of the game, the appreciation of a fine shot or a superb delivery, a nail-biting finish or the camaraderie among supporters. No, what makes cricket dear to economists has been laid out in a research paper published last month from the IZA Institute of Labour Economics. This is what they wrote: ‘Several feature
 
