The news published on the date July 28, 2024 01:57 PM IST with headline  Not all residents leaving India require tax clearance certificates: FinMin is: 
 The Budget for 2024-25 introduced a few amendments for those planning to move abroad from India. The mandate to obtain tax clearances for residents leaving India is not for everyone, the finance ministry clarified on July 28."As per section 230 of the Income-tax Act, 1961, every person is not required to obtain a tax clearance certificate. Only in the case of certain persons, in respect of whom circumstances exist which make it necessary to obtain a tax clearance certificate will be required to obtain such certificate," the ministry said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Budget for 2024-25 introduced a few amendments for those planning to move abroad from India.The ministry added that only in certain cases would an individual need to obtain such a tax clearance:-Where the person is involved in serious financial irregularities and his presence is necessary in investigation of cases under the Income-tax Act or the Wealth-tax Act and it is likely that a tax demand will be raised against him.
 
The news published on the date July 28, 2024 07:46 AM IST with headline  Focus on these 6 sectors post budget; pharma and IT could be dark horses is: 
 Budget 2024 By Mohit Khanna, Fund Manager at Purnartha One StrategyIn general, the market's expectation was that the government will use the RBI’s dividend payout for welfare activities. However, the Government chose to use almost the entire payout to reduce the fiscal deficit to 4.9 percent or by 70bps YoY. This is commendable, especially when this was the first Budget under a coalition government. The FM re-distributed the expenditure basket while maintaining the capital expenditure at Rs 11.11 lakh crore (as announced in the interim budget) and increasing the allocation to the rural sector. Further, the FM introduced a new policy for education and skilling – Employment Linked Incentives (ELI). So, we can see that the Government’s focus has shifted from PLI (production linked incentive) to ELI.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdLet me share 2 data points that was highlighted in the Economic Survey –1) India needs to create ~80 lakh jobs per year till 2036 at least2) Factories with 100+ workers have seen 13 percent workforce growth – implying that India's manufacturing is getting more organized.By introducing ELI, the government is looking to accelerate job creation in the formal sector. This should have a gradual but a strong positive impact on the economy over the next few years.Another aspect is that the Government’s spending was lower in the first quarter of the fiscal due to the general elections – plus we have another Budget in February 2025 i.e. only 6 months from now. This means that the yearly expenditure should now be done in less time. There can be two possible outcomes –1) Government meets its expenditure targets – proving a strong tailwind to multiple sectors2) Government spends less – beating fiscal deficit target – leading to lower inflation and possible lower interest rates by RBI under its Monetary Policy.
 
The news published on the date July 28, 2024 07:45 AM IST with headline  Budget 2024 – Sanctity of macro preserved without populism! is: 
 Budget 2024 By Hiren Ved, Director & Chief Investment Officer at Alchemy Capital ManagementAt first glance, the budget seemed populist, but it is not! Yes, there is a big push to try and fire up employment but incentivising the private sector to hire more and tackle the big challenge of unemployment given that we need to create 7-8 million new jobs annually. Think of it as a PLI (production linked incentive) for employment generation. How this will be operationalised on the ground is to be seen, but the intent is in the right direction.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe moot question in the minds of investors was – what the government will do with the additional Rs 1.4 lakh crore (Rs 1.4 trillion) of resources that it has due to higher RBI dividend and better tax collections? Will it be more populist, or will it increase the allocation for capex and fiscal consolidation? The Finance Minister’s decision to allocate nearly 70 percent of this surplus to reduce the fiscal deficit, and 30 percent to increased transfers to states, while maintaining capex at Rs 11 lakh crore, is prudent. This somewhat anticipated allocation of Rs 0.4 lakh crore to the two states - Bihar and Andhra, both very important allies in the NDA government - can also be construed as an infrastructure stimulus, as this amount will be spent on building infrastructure in these states including power, roads, irrigation, and education.By aggressively bringing down the fiscal deficit to 4.9 percent for FY25 and showing a glide path to 4.5 percent by FY26, is a signal to global rating agencies to upgrade India’s sovereign rating. This strategic move will help in bringing down the cost of capital in India on a long-term structural basis and bring down long term interest rates in the country.From a capital markets perspective, the increase in STCG (Short Term Capital Gains) and LTCG (Long Term Capital Gains) on listed equities was a slight dampener. But one can take comfort from the fact that this was part of a larger design to simplify the capital gains tax on all asset classes – equites both listed and unlisted, debt, gold and real estate. The capital markets will take this in its stride, as it always has, and investors will move on. Given that there was an overwhelming feeling that some regulatory and tax interventions would be taken to curb the excessive speculative fervour in the Futures and Options market, the increase in STT (Securities Transaction Tax) is welcome. There could be more follow up measures like increasing lot sizes and rationalising the expiry days, but once that is done the hanging sword on regulatory interventions would be out of the way, in our view.
 
The news published on the date July 27, 2024 10:44 AM IST with headline  Flavour of department has changed from enforcement to taxpayer centric: CBDT chairman is: 
 Department becoming more taxpayer centric The central board of direct taxes has become more focused on the taxpayer rather than enforcement, said Ravi Agrawal, CBDT chairman, at the Confederation of Indian Industry session on July 26.“The flavour of the department has changed from being an enforcement department to a taxpayer-centric department," Agrawal noted, highlighting that the Union Budget was a step forward.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAgrawal also pointed to an increasing focus on digitalisation and resolution.“Multiple litigations were not leading us anywhere, the procedures have been standardised. We have come up with Vivad se vishwas scheme, keeping in view that last VSVS was successful,” the CBDT chairman said at the CII session.The chairman also noted that the new capital gains tax regime is expected to benefit in most cases.
 
The news published on the date July 27, 2024 06:59 AM IST with headline  Bank of Maharashtra may meet 25% MPS norm in FY25: DFS Secy is: 
 The government holds 86.46 percent stake in Bank of Maharashtra. The government may look at reducing its stake in the Bank of Maharashtra (BoM) in FY25 to comply with Minimum Public Shareholding (MPS) regulations, while the remaining four public sector banks will not be able to meet the norm in current fiscal, Department of Financial Services (DFS) Secretary Vivek Joshi said.The government holds 86.46 percent stake in Bank of Maharashtra.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdApart from Bank of Maharasthra, the government's stake in Punjab & Sind Bank stands at 98.25 percent, followed by Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) with 96.38 percent, UCO Bank at 95.39 percent and Central Bank of India with 93.08 percent.“BoM can work towards meeting MPS, and we can aim to reduce the gap in other banks as well. However, it is unlikely that all banks will meet the MPS requirements in the current year as the gap in MPS among public sector banks (PSBs) is substantial, with figures as high as 97-98 percent for some,” Joshi told Moneycontrol in an interview.The exemption to meet the minimum public shareholding for public sector undertakings, including public lenders, ends in August.
 
The news published on the date July 27, 2024 08:08 AM IST with headline  Govt asks public insurers to move out of motor, health insurance to reduce losses: DFS Secy is: 
 Financial Services Secretary Vivek Joshi The Union government has asked the public sector insurance companies, who are struggling to improve their solvency ratio and profits, to come out of motor and health insurance segments, which have been identified as significant loss-making areas. This directive comes as part of a broader strategy to enhance the financial health and operational efficiency of these insurers, Department of Financial Services Secretary Vivek Joshi said."We are nudging them not to focus on toplines. Earlier they used to take business to show growth. Now we are asking them to come out of loss-making segments like motor and health insurance," Joshi told Moneycontrol in an interview. The move is aimed at reducing the burden of unlimited liability claims associated with motor insurance and high claim ratios in health insurance.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe three major public sector insurers – United India Insurance Company (UIIC), National Insurance Company Limited (NICL), and Oriental Insurance Company Limited (OICL) – received a combined capital infusion of Rs 17,500 crore in two phases, with Rs 9,950 crore injected in FY 2019-20 and Rs 7,500 crore in FY 2020-21.The government’s directive to move away from motor and health insurance is part of a strategy to steer these companies towards more profitable and manageable segments. Motor insurance, in particular, has been problematic due to the unlimited liability associated with accident claims, unlike aviation and railway insurance, which have caps on claims.Against expectations, the Union Budget did not announce any fresh capital infusion for the public insurers. The performance of these public sector insurers will be reviewed in FY25 to plan any further capital infusion, he said.
 
The news published on the date July 26, 2024 06:21 PM IST with headline  India has high tax-to-GDP ratio given its per capita income: Revenue secretary is: 
 The World Bank notes that a tax-to-GDP ratio of over 15 percent is a key ingredient for economic growth. India may have a lower tax base, but its tax-to-GDP is much higher compared to its peers, Sanjay Malhotra, secretary, department of revenue, ministry of finance, said at a Confederation of Indian Industry session on July 26.“The tax-to-GDP, given the level of development, is not low. We are slightly above what our per capita income indicates,” the secretary noted.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMalhotra further highlighted that the tax base would increase as more formalisation takes root.The World Bank notes that a tax-to-GDP ratio of over 15 percent is a key ingredient for economic growth. India’s general government tax-to-GDP ratio of 18 percent, is lower than China’s at 21 percent and US’ 25 percent.“More people will find it difficult to stay out of tax base and tax net,” he pointed out.
 
The news published on the date July 26, 2024 05:38 PM IST with headline  Business in the Week Ahead (July 29- August 2, 2024) is: 
 Some important data points to be on the lookout for next week are listed below. Benchmark indices have been on the mend since the budget announcement on July 23. After the initial shock of some of the announcements the market has recovered gradually. Now, all eyes are on Q1 earnings which will determine the market direction.Ruchit Jain, research analyst at 5paisa told Moneycontrol.com, "Post-budget, I believe the markets have entered a corrective phase. This correction is more time-based rather than price-based, meaning the index remains within a range. During this period, w
 
The news published on the date July 26, 2024 05:20 PM IST with headline  The Reading List: July 26, 2024 is: 
 A list of articles and social media gems from the world of economy, business and finance. In a world strapped for time, we thought you may find it useful to have a selection of articles we read this past week. As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. Occasionally, we may stray from these subjects.These links may be from external websites we frequent o
 
The news published on the date July 26, 2024 04:42 PM IST with headline  Core inflation decline may not be such a good thing: Economists is: 
 Services inflation has been easing The finance minister in her Budget speech highlighted that core inflation in India has declined to 3.1 percent, but economists highlight that falling core may not be such a good thing for the economy.India’s services inflation declined 2.67 percent in June—its lowest level since 2011— widening the gap with goods inflation, according to a Moneycontrol analysis.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe gap between goods and services inflation in June was the highest in eleven months, with goods inflation rising to 6.7 percent in June from 6.3 percent in the previous month.Experts indicate that falling services inflation may be a sign of weakening demand in the economy.
 
The news published on the date July 26, 2024 04:53 PM IST with headline  Why the Economic Survey’s suggestion to target non-food inflation is misguided is: 
 By contrast, food inflation has roughly doubled over this period from 4.6% to 9.4%. The Economic Survey, released on July 22nd, is an engaging read. It provides many novel data Tables and Boxes. The Chief Economic Adviser Dr V Anantha Nageswaran should be complimented for this Survey. Indeed, a long review of some of its themes is warranted.This article analyzes one specific recommendation that it made – instead of targeting (headline) inflation as at present, India should consider targeting a subset of that i.e. non-food inflation. This subset is close to what is defined as core inflation in USA, i.e. inflation excluding fuel and food, which is their target. Since fuel is only 6.84% of our CPI basket, and retail fuel prices are less volatile in India than in USA due to offsetting changes in fuel taxes, non-food inflation is a suitable measure of core for India. It comprises 60.94% of the CPI now, with the remaining consumer food price index (CFPI) component 39.06%. The CEA’s recommendation has attracted a lot of attention, going by articles in the financial media.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdCore inflation as a concept gained traction in the US in the 1970s. Following OPEC’s quadrupling of oil prices in 1973, the Bureau of Labour Statistics started reporting it and the Federal Reserve incorporated it into its Greenbook projections and decision making process.To begin with, even for developed countries, one can reject the core inflation concept on various grounds. But that requires historical and statistical evidence and conceptual justifications and even robust, commonsensical arguments, provided elsewhere. Instead, let us examine recent developments. In the RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee, since early 2023, strong dissent has centred around the steady drop in non-food or core inflation, from 5.3% last June to 3% this June, and below the RBI’s 4% target since October 2023. By contrast, food inflation has roughly doubled over this period from 4.6% to 9.4%, although somewhat erratically, and headline inflation has inched up this June above 5%.In Chapter 3, the Economic Survey discusses various measures to contain food supply shocks, starting with governmental buffer stock management, which it does. Another option is export bans. When there is a global shortage or global demand is high, bans do certainly lower domestic prices, and benefit consumers. Box III.2 (Pg 95) provides details of the dates of the bans and their removals for wheat, non-basmati varieties of rice, and other food items – notably onions. But banning exports create disincentives to produce more.
 
The news published on the date July 26, 2024 04:14 PM IST with headline  Rupee declines 2 paise to close at record low of 83.72 is: 
 The rupee has weakened to record low levels in four of the five trading sessions this week. Rupee slipped to its weakest level on July 26 after the currency dipped two paise to end at a record low of 83.72 against the US dollar.The currency was pressured by dollar demand from local oil companies, custodial banks and tepid risk sentiment.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe currency had closed at 83.6975 in the previous session.The currency was down about 0.1 percent week-on-week, extending its losing streak to the fourth straight week.The slip came amid outflows from local equities, volatility in the Chinese yuan, and expectations that the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) may allow the currency to weaken slightly as it seeks to correct its overvaluation.
 
The news published on the date July 26, 2024 03:49 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | RBI fortifies the banking system, but at a cost is: 
 What are the options for banks? Crank up the fight for deposits to keep up with credit growth? Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“All animals are equal, but some are more equal than others.” George Orwell’s Animal Farm might not be behind what the Reserve Bank of India has proposed for banks, but it sure seems to be inspired from the above line. The RBI, in a draft circular on Thursday, has proposed that banks must set aside more reserves from April 1, 2025, towards liquidity coverage ratio against deposits that have a digital enabler attached.Simply put, the term deposit you opened through a few clicks online and your savings account that allows you to scan and pay through UPI, will need your bank to invest more in government securities. But the deposit your boomer parent opened by walking to the nearest branch and getting the physical certificate will be termed as less of a flight risk for the bank.So much for chest thumping over digital prowess. It is not that the RBI doesn’t want banks to become digital power houses and offer the best to their customers. In fact, its recent spree of penalties and business restrictions on big lenders to punish them for digital lapses shows otherwise. What the banking regulator simply wants is for banks to take a lesson from the SVB debacle in the US.
 
The news published on the date July 26, 2024 01:35 PM IST with headline  Mineral royalty revenue jumps 32% for states during FY17 to FY22 is: 
 Mineral rich states got a mining boost The Supreme Court, on July 26, granted states the power to levy taxes on mineral rights, contending that royalty is a contractual consideration, opening the doors for the states to earn more revenues from mining operations.A Moneycontrol analysis of data from ministry of mines shows that the states have already witnessed a surge in revenues from mining, as royalty revenues expanded at a compounded annual growth rate of 32 percent between FY17 and FY22.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe top five states, including Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand, have earned every higher royalty revenue during this period.In the case of Odisha, for instance, royalty payments from mines jumped seven times between FY17 and FY22 to Rs 17,983 crore. Chhattisgarh’s royalty payments increased eight-fold during this period to Rs 8,839 crore.
 
The news published on the date July 26, 2024 12:50 PM IST with headline  In Budget 2024, catalysts introduced to augment growth for auto sector is: 
 auto sector The Budget 2024-25 introduced by the Hon’ble Finance Minister today presented a detailed roadmap for the Government’s pursuit of ‘Viksit Bharat’ and self-reliant India. The announcements prioritize domestic manufacturing, infrastructure development, job creation, and changes in customs duties. Notably, a significant allocation of Rs 11,11,111 crore (approximately 3.4% of GDP) for infrastructure underscores the government's commitment to fostering a green economy.The Indian automotive industry is on the cusp of substantial growth, which is being fuelled by the government's recent policies that focus on encouraging local manufacturing and lessening regulatory constraints. With a substantial budget expenditure of Rs 6,921 crore allocated to incentive schemes, the sector is at the heart of the government's 'Make-in-India' initiative. Both Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and component suppliers stand to benefit from these measures, which are expected to bolster India's manufacturing capabilities.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdCustoms duty changes are central to these efforts in this budget proposals. While the upcoming sunset clause on battery imports for electric two and three-wheelers might initially seem counterproductive, it aligns with the broader goal of fostering a domestic battery ecosystem.The efforts of the Government on deep localization in the sector also get reinforced by the proposal to reduce/ exempt customs duty on battery components and parts, critical minerals for rare earth magnets, parts of PCBA, etc.Additionally, the government's support for the semiconductor industry, through custom duty exemptions on equipment and components, is crucial for the automotive sector's long-term competitiveness.
 
The news published on the date July 26, 2024 12:23 PM IST with headline  Financial services perspective of India’s Budget and the path to Viksit Bharat is: 
 The Budget for FY24-25 is forward looking and does have its heart in the right place. By Pratik Shah and Keyur Shah The FY24-25 Union Budget presented by the Indian Finance Minister is a strategic blueprint aimed at catalyzing the nation's journey towards 'Viksit Bharat' or Developed India. The focus on creating large-scale employment opportunities, accelerating the growth of the rural economy, and fostering a consumption-driven economy through these means is noteworthy. With a clear impetus on MSME, employment growth, skilling and the middle class, a slew of incentives have been announced in this context.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe introduction of a credit guarantee scheme for MSMEs and the establishment of a self-financing guarantee fund with a guarantee cover of up to Rs 100 crore per applicant is a significant step. This move will likely reduce the credit risk for lenders and encourage them to extend more loans to MSMEs. This should result in significant credit offtake in the financial sector as well as provide impetus to the micro lending and non-bank lending to the MSME sector. By mitigating the risk factor, banks and financial institutions may be more inclined to support small businesses, which are often considered the backbone of the Indian economy. Further, given the specific announcement regarding strengthening debt recovery tribunals and also setting up of more such tribunals should help foster a better credit environment.Secondly, the proposal to lower the turnover threshold for mandatory onboarding on the TReDS platform from Rs 500 crore to Rs 250 crore is a strategic move to enhance liquidity for MSMEs. By converting trade receivables into cash, MSMEs can unlock their working capital more efficiently. This initiative not only improves the cash flow for small businesses but also encourages Public Sector Banks (PSBs) to engage with digital platforms, aligning with the Viksit Bharat vision of digital empowerment and financial inclusion.From a direct tax perspective, the FM said that the government would revamp the income tax, 1961. Hence one can expect a leaner and easier direct tax legislation in the near future. Further, for the financial services industry, the removal of the angel tax and the rationalization of tax rates for foreign banks from 40 to 35 percent should be of benefit. The reduced limit for reopening of assessments from 10 years to 5 years should also go a long way in providing certainty to taxpayers.
 
The news published on the date July 26, 2024 11:59 AM IST with headline  Cutting through tax complexity in Budget 2024 is: 
 The budget proposes to simplify these provisions. By Ganesh RajFinance Minister’s seventh budget is visionary and path breaking on many fronts. It maintains the fiscal consolidation path with 4.9% fiscal deficit for FY25, lower than 5.1% estimated in the interim budget, and sets a target of 4.5% for FY26. It also keeps the promise of capex spend, with a provision of 3.4% of GDP for the purpose. The strong direct tax revenues have been a key factor that enabled this balance of capex with fiscal prudence.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn direct tax side, the budget stands out for focusing on tax simplification. Many simmering issues that the taxpayers were facing have now been addressed, sending a clear message that the government remains committed to providing tax certainty and reduce litigation.Rationalisation of withholding taxes has been an important ask from taxpayers. The budget lowers the Tax Deducted at Source (TDS) rates for many transactions, which should ease the cash flow for taxpayers while meeting the government’s objective of tracking transactions. For instance, it is proposed to lower the TDS rates from 5% to 2% in case of payments related to insurance commission (person other than company), life insurance policy, commission or brokerage and rent paid by individual or HUF. E-commerce participant (ECP) had to earlier bear a TDS rate of 1% which was not only higher than that applicable for offline transactions but was a squeeze on the thin margins of many ECPs. The budget now brings parity in the TDS rates at 0.1%, providing much relief to the ECPs on payment by E-Commerce operators. Payments on account of repurchase of units by Mutual Fund or Unit Trust of India has been excluded from current TDS deduction liability of 20%.Another significant relief is that earlier Tax Collected at Source (TCS) paid by salaried employees was not considered while computing his TDS liability u/s 192 of Income Tax Act and the employee had to claim a refund for the TCS paid, which added to the compliance burden. The budget now allows credit of TCS paid while computing TDS liability on salary income.
 
The news published on the date July 26, 2024 11:15 AM IST with headline  Capital gains tax structure changes will help IFSC is: 
 The proposals seek to increase the capital gains tax rates on listed equity shares. The union budget’s proposals on capital gains tax structure has potentially a significant impact on foreign portfolio investors and the attractiveness of India’s international financial services centre (IFSC). The likely fallout are as follows.FPIsStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe proposals seek to increase the capital gains tax rates on listed equity shares from 10 percent to 12.5 percent and from 15 percent to 20 percent for long term capital gains and short term capital gains, respectively. The higher rates are applicable for all transfers of listed shares from today onwards. The increase in tax rates could potentially impact NAVs of offshore FPIs that provide for tax on accrued gains.IFSCIFSC is emerging as an important destination for Fund Managers to set up funds, especially to raise monies from offshore investors for investing in capital markets. Currently, there is a separate tax regime for Category III Alternative Investment Funds set up in IFSC which is broadly comparable to taxation regime for offshore Funds set up in jurisdictions such as Singapore and Mauritius. To provide further impetus to Funds in IFSC, it is proposed to extend the same regime to retail schemes and ETFs set up in IFSC (currently, there is no separate tax regime for such Funds in IFSC). With this announcement, Fund Managers may want to explore the setting up of retail schemes and ETFs in IFSC.
 
The news published on the date July 26, 2024 12:21 PM IST with headline  FM Nirmala Sitharaman: Open to feedback on tax changes proposed in Budget 2024, but Finance Bill with Parliament now is: 
 Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on July 26 said the government is open to all views and feedback on the proposed tax changes in Budget 2024, but noted that the Finance Bill is now under Parliament’s consideration and she cannot comment on it outside.Sitharaman, during an event, was asked if the government will review the removal of indexation benefit on the sale of real estate assets after several taxpayers, investors and the Opposition raised concerns on the withdrawal.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“I will hear all comments and suggestions with respect to tax changes but the Finance Bill now rests with Parliament. I can’t comment on it outside."In this year's Budget, the government has proposed to bring down the long-term capital gain tax (LTCG) rate on real estate assets to 12.5 percent from the earlier 20 percent and to drop the indexation benefit to adjust for inflation. The new rates will be applicable starting from July 23, but properties bought before 2001 will be grandfathered and protected against the latest changes.Read more: "Not in a hurry to shut that shop", FM backs the capex push till recovery is completeFurther, Sitharaman said taxes have not been increased because the government wants more money but to ensure equal treatment across all asset classes.“For ease of doing business, for simplification and for rationalisation we have increased taxes and not for revenue consideration or because I want more money... The decision is based on the idea that every asset class has to be treated similarly,” Sitharaman said during an industrial interaction ‘Budget Open House’, which was organised by the RP Sanjiv Goenka group in partnership with CNBC-TV18.The government faced a backlash following the presentation of the Budget as it announced an increase in short-term capital gain tax to 20 percent from 15 percent on equities and equity-linked mutual funds. The government has also proposed to hike LTCG tax rate to 12.5 percent from the earlier 10 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdStory continues below AdvertisementThe effects of these changes on the stock markets were seen on the Budget day after BSE Sensex plunged 1.6 percent during the trading hours before recovering to end flat.Describing the budget as “futuristic,” she said that all calculations were meticulously conducted, dismissing the notion that they were “back of the envelope calculations.”Sitharaman reaffirmed the government’s commitment to sustained capital expenditure to ensure economic recovery is sustained. She also highlighted the budget’s focus on allocating resources for imparting skills to India’s youth
 
The news published on the date July 26, 2024 11:22 AM IST with headline  FM Sitharaman at CNBC-TV18's Open House Highlights: Open to hearing comments on tax changes, but the finance bill now rests in the house, says FM FM Sitharaman
 
The news published on the date July 26, 2024 10:24 AM IST with headline  RBI's proposed liquidity norms to raise demand for bonds is: 
 RBI's proposed liquidity norms to raise demand for bonds The Reserve Bank of India's latest draft guidelines aimed at enhancing the liquidity resilience of lenders, amidst an increased use of digital infrastructure, are expected to boost demand for government bonds over the medium term, traders said.Late on Thursday, the central bank proposed that banks apply an additional 5% reduction in the stability of retail deposits that have internet and mobile banking access.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIf finalised, the norms would be applicable from April 1, 2025."Given the significant penetration of internet and mobile banking, the proposed changes are likely to increase the outflows in the next 30 day bucket for banks, thereby posing higher requirements of high-quality liquid assets (HQLA)," Anil Gupta, senior vice president and co-group head financial sector ratings at ICRA said.Liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) is a certain proportion of HQLA that banks need to maintain at all times. It includes cash, reserves with central banks, and federal government bonds, which can easily be converted into cash.
 
The news published on the date July 26, 2024 09:30 AM IST with headline  The Union Budget does not alter the investment case for gold is: 
 Impact of Budget on Gold Highlights - Quarterly performance largely backed by improved realisations - Medium-term triggers China plus and protectionist measures for tyre industry - Valuations not inexpensive; but improved medium-term outlook The Union Budget 2024 has introduced changes that impact gold investments, both physical and digital. Among all the changes, the finance minister’s proposal to reduce import duties on gold and silver from 15 percent to 6 percent was a significant one. Following the announcement, gold and silver prices tumbled more than 4 percent and obviously caught everyone’s attention.The Union Budget has also revised the tax structure, removing the indexation benefit for Long Term Capital Gains (LTCG) calculatio
 
The news published on the date July 26, 2024 10:17 AM IST with headline  Judgement that will alter both federal and mineral tax landscape is: 
 States have the legislative power to tax mineral rights. (Representative image) By Gopal Mundhra The nine-judge Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court of India, with a decisive 8:1 majority, has ruled on the contentious issue of mineral taxation, overturning previous judgments and clarifying the balance of power between the Union and the States.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe majority verdict declared that royalty on minerals is not a tax but a contractual consideration, and consequently States have the legislative power to tax mineral rights and mineral-bearing lands over and above the collection of royalty under Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act 1957 (MMDR Act).States get a say on mineral taxationThe judgment significantly bolsters the States' authority in mineral taxation. It affirms that States can use mineral yield or value as a measure to tax mineral rights and mineral-bearing lands, and that the MMDR Act does not impose limitations on the States' taxing powers. The only dissenting judge, Justice Nagarathna, held that royalty is indeed a tax and warned that allowing States to levy additional taxes on minerals could lead to a lack of uniformity and unhealthy competition.
 
The news published on the date July 26, 2024 08:35 AM IST with headline  Decoding Economics: IMF paper maps India’s distance from productivity frontier is: 
 - In her budget speech, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the government will prepare an Economic Policy Framework to usher in "next generation reforms’’. She said, ‘’ These reforms will cover all factors of production, namely land, labour, capital and entrepreneurship, and technology as an enabler of improving total factor productivity and bridging inequality.’’ Perhaps the policy framework makers could get ideas about what is needed from an IMF working paper published this month titled ‘
 
The news published on the date July 26, 2024 08:14 AM IST with headline  Chart of the Day: Credit guarantees, forbearance have fuelled MSME credit is: 
 Small business need a credit fillip to become big Credit to micro, small and medium enterprises was constrained before the pandemic hit in FY21 and most banks refrained from lending to them given the increase in stress among small businesses. This changed dramatically after the pandemic as Covid-19 necessitated special dispensations from the banking regulator and the government to support businesses under distress. The emergency credit line guarantee scheme (ECLGS), announced in the Union Budget of 2022-23 assisted in collateral-free loans to small businesses. More importantly
 
The news published on the date July 26, 2024 07:56 AM IST with headline  We need long-term budgeting to tackle climate change is: 
 - Climate change has finally become part of the mainstream of political discourse, if the Union finance minister’s Budget speech is anything to go by.For starters, the Finance Minister mentioned the term “climate change” at least seven times in her speech, not counting tangential references. This may not sound like much but considering the fact that the term “Viksit Bharat” (developed India) – which was underlined as the theme of the Budget – was mentioned only four times
 
The news published on the date July 26, 2024 07:55 AM IST with headline  CBDT consolidates review process with single order covering six assessment years is: 
 Time barring" refers to the deadline by which a tax authority must complete an assessment and issue a notice. In a significant move to simplify and expedite tax assessment procedures, the Finance Bill has proposed an amendment to the Income Tax Act for consolidation of the assessment process in cases involving multiple years. This will ease the burden on taxpayers and streamline the workflow.In a major relief to assessees who are probed for evasion of income tax, after the searches are carried out, the assessment for six years will be clubbed which will be completed within time-bound 12 months, following which a single demand notice will be issued, Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) Chairman Ravi Agarwal told Moneycontrol in an interview.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTill now, separate notices were issued at different times for every assessment year which stretched the proceedings to even up to 10 years."Initially, tax assessments in search cases could be opened for up to 10 years, leading to multiple notices being issued across different years. Each notice had a different time-barring date, which stretched the proceedings and created challenges for both taxpayers and tax officers," Agarwal said.Under the previous system, if a notice was issued in one year, it could potentially have implications extending into the next, with the final time-barring dates spreading over several years. "This resulted in a complex mesh of overlapping assessments, often leading to increased disputes and prolonged resolution times," he added.In direct tax terminology, "time barring" refers to the deadline by which a tax authority must complete an assessment and issue a notice to a taxpayer. If this deadline is not met, the assessment becomes "time-barred", meaning that the tax authority loses the legal right to assess additional taxes for that period.
 
The news published on the date July 25, 2024 08:42 PM IST with headline  Formal employment picks up in May; new subscribers to EPF, ESIC rise is: 
 Formal employment improves Formal employment picked up in May after a disappointing start to the year as new enrollments in the government’s social security schemes rose, according to data released on July 25.New subscriptions to the Employees’ Provident Fund scheme rose 5.8 percent in April compared with the previous month to 984,681, while subscriptions to the Employees’ State Insurance Scheme, which caters to relatively lower-paid employees, jumped 40 percent to 1.7 million, as per the report released by the ministry of statistics and programme implementation.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe rise in employment bodes well for the economy. Private survey data has been hinting at improving employment prospects in the first quarter, after a tepid growth in the previous year.The number of private employees joining the National Pension Scheme rose 108 percent to 21,299 from 10,250 during this period.
 
The news published on the date July 25, 2024 08:07 PM IST with headline  Black Money Act amendment to remove penalty on non-disclosure of foreign assets worth Rs 20 lakh is: 
 Black Money Act amendments in Section 42 and 43 will be a part of the Finance Bill. An amendment in the Black Money Act will give taxpayers relief from penalty in case they fail to disclose overseas assets worth Rs 20 lakh, Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) Chairman Ravi Agarwal said, adding that however the obligation to report the transanction is not done away with.The Black Money Act amendments in Section 42 and 43 will be a part of the Finance Bill.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBlack Money (Undisclosed Foreign Income and Assets) and Imposition of Tax Act, 2015 aims to curb black money, or undisclosed foreign assets and income and imposes tax and penalty on such income. Currently under the Act, even if the taxpayers fail to disclose a foreign asset worth Rs 5 lakh, they have to pay a Rs 10 lakh penalty on it.“At present if the taxpayer is holding any asset abroad, which is not declared in the income tax return then there is a penalty of Rs 10 lakh. An amendment in the Black Money Act is proposed that If the value of the overseas asset is up to Rs 20 lakh, and is not disclosed, there will be no penalty if it's a bonafide mistake on the part of the taxpayer,” Agarwal told Moneycontrol in an interview.However, it does not mean that the obligation to actually report a transaction has been done away with. It should not be interpreted that way. The penalty has been removed, does not mean that the obligation has also been removed, he added.
 
The news published on the date July 25, 2024 07:34 PM IST with headline  IN-SPACe invites industry to build and manage satellite system under PPP model is: 
 Space regulator IN-SPACe floated an expression of interest in this regard on July 25 Space regulator the Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (IN-SPACe) is looking towards Indian private entities to build and manage a space-based Earth Observation (EO) system under a Public-Private Partnership (PPP) model.The body on July 25 released an Expression of Interest (EOI) inviting proposals from Indian entities.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe opening of doors for Indian entities to develop this project which involves the design, build, and launch of a constellation of satellites equipped with advanced imaging technologies is a major leap in boosting EO-based space economy in the country.The proposal encompasses non-governmental entities (NGE) (a term reserved in the space sector for private entities) to design, build, and establish constellation of satellites in Low Earth Orbit having a combination of sensors including panchromatic, multispectral, hyperspectral and microwave.It will also involve NGEs launching the satellites through Indian satellite launch vehicles, monitoring and controlling the spacecraft health, and payload data download by establishing and operating their own ground stations or through Ground Stations as a Service (GSaaS) providers.
 
The news published on the date July 25, 2024 06:16 PM IST with headline  Labour and skill ministries' spend to double from previous decade is: 
 Govt to spend a lot more on jobs and skills The labour and skill development ministries of the government will spend nearly double of what they disbursed in the last decade over the next five years, according to a Moneycontrol analysis of Budget documents.While the ministries had spent Rs 1.03 lakh crore between FY16 and FY24, the Budget lays down a roadmap of spending Rs 2 lakh crore over the next five years.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA major boost is expected to go towards skill development, where spending over the next half a decade is expected to 5.2 times higher than what was spent between FY16 and FY24. On the other hand, labour ministry’s scheme spending will be 1.2 times higher.
 
The news published on the date July 25, 2024 04:51 PM IST with headline  As many as 4.6 crore income tax returns filed so far in AY2024-25: CBDT Chairman is: 
 Budget- Income tax- 2024 As many as 4.6 crore Income Tax return have been filed so far and the income tax department is in discussion with the technological vendors to ensure capacity to handle large volumes as the last date of July 31 nears.“We are aware of the glitches on the income tax portal. We are talking to our vendors to ensure that the portal is able to handle the additional volumes of return filing,” Central Board of Direct Taxes Chairman Ravi Agarwal told Moneycontrol in an interview.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe portal was able to handle 2.2 lakh return filings in the peak hour on July 25, he said.In the 4.6 crore returns filed, two-thirds have been filed under the new tax regime.The government is hoping that its “nudge towards the new tax regime” by offering relief attracts more taxpayers to move to the regime, he said. The CBDT will also now begin an overhaul of the Income Tax Act, which will aim at simplifying the tax laws. The review will be done over the next six months, and the Bill may be introduced in the next Union Budget in February, Agarwal said.
 
The news published on the date July 25, 2024 04:11 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Nasdaq rout, a wake-up call? is: 
 The Nasdaq Composite fell by a sharper 3.6 percent. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn Wednesday, the $1 trillion rout in the tech-heavy Nasdaq 100 index marked the worst day recorded in the market in about 18 months. The blue-chip S&P 500 fell 2.3 percent and the Nasdaq Composite fell by a sharper 3.6 percent. Stocks of the Magnificent Seven -- Microsoft, Apple, Tesla, Amazon, Meta, Alphabet and Nvidia -- tanked and sky-high investor profits vanished in a jiffy, as questions were raised on the payback time for investments in technology, primarily artificial intelligence (AI).Thus far, the results announced by some of the mega tech companies were far from impressive. Telsa’s profits missed expectations and worse, brokerages warned that the company’s “timeframe and probability of success” of plans to roll out self-driving “robotaxis” is hazy. Likewise, Alphabet’s indications of sinking more resources to compete with rivals in AI did not go down well with investors. Shares of other tech stocks such as AI-chip maker and the darling of tech investors, Nvidia, along with Apple too closed lower.To be sure, it’s a wake-up call for investors who are realising that the payoffs for billions of dollars invested could take longer than envisaged. The big question: Is the AI frenzy cooling off?
 
The news published on the date July 25, 2024 03:50 PM IST with headline  Govt focused on becoming a more privatised economy: DIPAM Secretary on PSE policy timeline is: 
 Focus on becoming a privatised economy: DIPAM secretary The timeline of the government’s PSE policy, which envisaged minimum government, has been moved up, said Tuhin Kanta Pandey, secretary, Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM), when asked about the possibility of CPSE mergers to improve efficiency.The government had announced a new public sector enterprise policy as part of its Atmanirbhar Bharat reforms to minimise presence in key strategic sectors and exit the non-strategic ones.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdNoting that the government was still focused on becoming a more privatised economy, Pandey, in an interview with Moneycontrol, noted that the focus is on value creation.“We didn't have actually a fixed timeline there. Privatisation efforts are contingent on availability of bidders and how conducive it is to carry out such initiatives. But the primary issue of value creation remains, irrespective of whether you privatise or not,” he said.DIPAM secretary also noted that the disinvestment process was continuing and the government had other options available.
 
The news published on the date July 25, 2024 03:30 PM IST with headline  PSU mergers overhyped; HR issues will lead to problems: DIPAM Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey is: 
 CPSEs will need to be assessed from HR concerns that can arise from mergers, Tuhin Kanta Pandey said Public sector undertakings will not follow a herd mentality on mergers, said Tuhin Kanta Pandey, secretary, Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM), when asked about the possibility of CPSE mergers to improve efficiency.“Mergers are in my opinion overhyped. The literature is still not very clear that the mergers have improved technical efficiencies,” he told Moneycontrol in an interview noting that public sector enterprises need to be assessed differently.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe government had announced merger of 10 nationalised lenders into four large banks in 2019.ALSO READ: RBI vetting process for IDBI Bank stake sale in advanced stage, says Dipam SecyPandey noted that while in the case of public sector banks, technology was primary consideration for mergers, CPSEs will need to be assessed from HR concerns that can arise from mergers.
 
The news published on the date July 25, 2024 02:13 PM IST with headline  Indian banks selling retail loan portfolios as deposits lag is: 
 Indian banks selling retail loan portfolios as deposits lag India’s private banks are selling portfolios of retail loans as regulators pressure them to improve credit-deposit ratios.India’s largest lender, HDFC Bank Ltd., sold a 50 billion rupee ($597 million) loan portfolio to an undisclosed buyer in June, Chief Financial Officer Srinivasan Vaidyanathan said in a post-earnings media call last week.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“We did see a good amount of interest in the market,” he said, noting the bank had last done such a transaction more than a decade ago. “It’s just a beginning,” and “at appropriate price points we will keep doing it,” he added.IDFC First Bank Ltd. sold a basket of unsecured retail loans to Citigroup Inc. in a securitization deal worth 6 billion to 7 billion rupees at the beginning of the year, according to people familiar with the plans who asked not to be named because the information is private.IDFC “will be happy to entertain more such transactions”, said Paritosh Mathur, its head of wholesale banking, without confirming the size or timing of the transaction. The deal won a AAA rating, Mathur said, due to the “high performance of our asset portfolio.”
 
The news published on the date July 25, 2024 01:53 PM IST with headline  Sugar industry body proposes bio-refinery transition plan to govt is: 
 Sugar industry body proposes bio-refinery transition plan to govt Sugar industry body ISMA on Thursday said it has presented a plan to the government to transform sugar mills into bio-refineries, aiming to boost production of sustainable aviation fuel and other green energy sources.The representatives of the Indian Sugar & Bio-Energy Manufacturers Association (ISMA) met with Food Minister Pralhad Joshi to discuss a policy framework for the transition, which would expand beyond current ethanol, bioelectricity, and biogas production, a statement said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdISMA Director General Deepak Ballani said the initiative would help India meet international aviation blending targets set to take effect in 2027 under CORSIA mandates while supporting the country's net-zero and self-reliance goals."We see a future where local resources drive national development," Ballani said in the statement adding that "This aligns with the government's vision for a self-reliant India." The plan aims to create alternative markets for India's estimated 55 million sugarcane farmers, building on the success of the current ethanol blending programme in increasing farmer incomes.The government launched 400 E-100 fuel pumps last year. Joshi stressed the need to promote E-100 use, particularly given India's leadership of the Global Biofuels Alliance.
 
The news published on the date July 25, 2024 12:43 PM IST with headline  Foreigners sell nearly $1 billion in Indian equities in two days since budget is: 
 Foreigners sell nearly $1 billion in Indian equities in two days since budget Foreign investors sold nearly $1 billion worth of Indian equities in the two days since the government raised taxes on derivatives trades and on capital gains from equity investments in its annual budget.Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) net sold shares worth 81.06 billion rupees ($968 million) on Tuesday and Wednesday, provisional data from the National Stock Exchange showed.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThese investors, anticipating the budget, had bought equities worth a net amount of $2.20 billion in six sessions before the presentation on Tuesday.They have invested a net $5.1 billion so far this year.The increase in capital gains tax is clearly a negative even if the increase on long-term gains is moderate, said Ashish Gupta, chief investment officer at Axis Mutual Fund.
 
The news published on the date July 25, 2024 12:01 PM IST with headline  Funding surge for blank cheque companies points to Spac bounceback is: 
 invest Nicholas Megaw Investors and bankers are lining up to raise billions of dollars for new special purpose acquisition companies, defying predictions the asset class would be wiped out after a series of scandals and a regulatory crackdown.Spacs, colloquially known as blank cheque companies, raise money in an initial public offering before searching for a company to acquire. New fundraising has been improving slowly this year, rising about 20 per cent over the same period of 2023 t
 
The news published on the date July 25, 2024 11:46 AM IST with headline  Inflation, stock prices, and french fries is: 
 It is not easy to analyse economic disruptions in real time as they unfold around you. (Source: Bloomberg/Getty Images) Robert Armstrong and Aiden ReiterFrench fries, inflation and asset pricesLamb Weston is an $8bn global company that slices and freezes potatoes. It sells them mostly to fast-food restaurants such as McDonald's, which fry them. The day before yesterday, it was an $11bn company that slices and freezes potatoes. The difference between those two numbers is Wednesday’s awful earnings report, which featured a 5 per cent decline in revenues, a collapse in earnings and a dreary outlook. Her
 
The news published on the date July 25, 2024 11:44 AM IST with headline  RBI may prefer mild rupee weakness to correct overvaluation, BofA says is: 
 RBI may prefer mild rupee weakness to correct overvaluation, BofA says The Reserve Bank of India may allow the rupee to weaken slightly to unwind the slightly elevated real effective exchange rate and keep the South Asian currency "competitive," BofA Securities said in a note on Thursday."It supports the government's ambitions for attracting large-scale manufacturing investments," the Wall Street firm said, adding it expects the rupee to decline to 84 to the U.S. dollar by the end of the year.Story continues below AdvertisementThe rupee was quoting at 83.7075 as of 10:54 a.m. IST, holding near the all-time low of 83.72 hit on Wednesday.The currency's trading range has slightly weakened to 83.40-83.70 this month, from the 83.0-83.5 range it held for a large part of the first half of the year, BofA pointed out.The RBI has been holding the rupee in a narrow range via a two-sided intervention -- by absorbing inflows to boost forex reserves and, as it did this week, selling dollars to support the currency."We see no sign of change in (the) RBI's pursuit of a higher reserves buffer, which would limit the appreciation potential for INR," BofA said.The RBI's dual-sided intervention has kept the rupee's volatility in check relative to historical levels."Over the medium term, it would be prudent for the RBI to allow higher volatility in INR. Along with the policy of building a large reserves buffer, that could create more asymmetric risks for trend INR depreciation," BofA said
 
The news published on the date July 25, 2024 10:14 AM IST with headline  India mulls easier norms for FPIs to take the FDI route, says DEA Secretary is: 
 Economic Affairs Secretary Ajay Seth India may consider changes to make it easier for foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) to take the Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) route after they reach the 10 percent cap on investment in shares.“At the moment foreign portfolio investment has to be less than 10 percent. Today, the moment an investor hits the 10 percent they would go back and offload into the market. But if someone wants to become a significant beneficial owner and cross that 10 percent and want to become FDI in a company, do we have a route? Of course, through the process of approvals. That is one of the things that can be facilitated,” Ajay Seth, Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs told Moneycontrol in an interview.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSeth clarifies this does not tantamount to a relaxation on the cap on FPI investment in equity shares, but is more a way to make it easier for an interested FPI to come on to the FDI regime.This means that the distinction between the two - FDI and FPI, may become less pronounced.Currently, Foreign Portfolio Investment refers to any investment made by a person resident outside India, in equity instruments where it is less than 10 percent of the post issue paid-up equity capital on a fully diluted basis of a listed Indian company or less than 10 percent of the paid-up value of each series of equity instruments of a listed Indian company.
 
The news published on the date July 25, 2024 09:02 AM IST with headline  India’s SMEs need a comprehensive policy beyond budgetary finance to go global is: 
 The setting up of e-commerce export hubs in public private-partnership (PPP) mode, operating under a seamless regulatory and logistic framework is also a positive step for exports HighlightsThe budget has announced much-needed support for the MSME sector in IndiaTo make SMEs part of global value chains, the government must take steps beyond giving financePolicy must segregate key sectors in SMEs and determine how GVCs functionFree trade agreements are a key part of the SME policy, but India is yet to make any headwa
 
The news published on the date July 25, 2024 07:39 AM IST with headline  India says it plans to simplify GST rate regime in coming months is: 
 India says it plans to simplify GST rate regime in coming months India is working on simplifying the country’s sales tax regime by introducing three slabs instead of the existing four rates, a top tax official said.“Too many rates in goods and services tax are leading to classification disputes and that needs to be resolved,” Sanjay Agarwal, chairman of the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs said in an interview Wednesday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAgarwal said GST compliance has improved since the tax was introduced in July 2017 and revenue growth has stabilized. That gives the government room to review the rates to simplify the system, he said.Revenue from GST has been steadily rising over the years and increased 11.7% in the fiscal year through March 2024. The collections rose to 1.74 trillion rupees in June.Agarwal said the government intends to simplify the GST structure by taking the existing slabs of 5%, 12%, 18% and 28% and combining it into three rates. The new rates would not impact the revenue collection adversely and the entire exercise “will be done in next few months.”
 
The news published on the date July 25, 2024 11:18 AM IST with headline  Revenue secretary rules out a rethink on LTCG as 'marginal' hike in levy is justified is: 
 Revenue secretary Sanjay Malhotra rules out a rethink on LTCG as 'marginal' hike in levy is justified A marginal increase in long-term capital gains (LTCG) tax on listed equity, which is a “passive income”, is justified in view of the salary, business and rental income being taxed at a much higher rate, Revenue Secretary Sanjay Malhotra said.Defending the removal of indexation benefits from LTCG on real estate, he said other asset classes, including incomes from shares, interest and fixed deposits do not enjoy the same benefit, and the move should be seen as a simplification measure.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“The income tax rates on salary income, business income or rental income are higher. On this passive income, the LTCG tax was only 10 percent, is it justifiable? This is a very marginal increase which will impact only people with a higher income as per our study,” Malhotra told Moneycontrol in an interview. “There is no need to rethink the LTCG. It’s a minor increase which the capital markets have absorbed."The Union Budget for 2024-25 announced a 12.5 percent long-term capital gains tax (LTCG) on all financial and non-financial assets. The proposal raised the tax rate by 2.5 percent for listed equity from 10 percent and reduced the tax rate by 7.5 percent for real estate, but without indexation benefits. Indexation adjusts the purchase price of the asset for inflation, and, hence, reduces the taxable capital gains.As much as 61 percent of the long-term capital gains tax comes from people with an income of more than Rs 1 crore and 88 percent LTCG is received from people with more than Rs 15 lakh income. Similar is the trend seen for short-term capital gains tax, he said.
 
The news published on the date July 25, 2024 06:54 AM IST with headline  Discussion paper on crypto policy likely before Sept, says DEA secretary is: 
 Economic Affairs Secretary Ajay Seth. India plans to come out with a discussion paper outlining its policy stance on cryptocurrencies before September, Economic Affairs Secretary Ajay Seth told Moneycontrol in an interview.The rationale behind the discussion paper is to seek comments and views from relevant stakeholders on the ideas outlined in it. This paper will contain suggestions on the remit of regulations for cryptocurrencies in India as well, Seth added.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“In India it (cryptocurrencies) is being regulated from the perspective of AML and EFT alone. Regulation starts and ends there, it cannot be beyond that, so should the remit be more? What should be the policy stance? All that will come out in the discussion paper.”Back in March 2023, India extended anti-money laundering (AML) and counter-terror financing (CTF) standards to crypto-assets and intermediaries.“At the moment, an inter-ministerial group, is looking into a wider policy for cryptocurrencies. We expect to come out with the discussion paper before September,” Seth said, adding that the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) as well as Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) are also part of the group.
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 10:42 PM IST with headline  Direct tax relief for middle class in Budget 2024 is ‘sufficient’: Revenue Secy is: 
 Revenue Secretary Sanjay Malhotra The direct tax slabs rejig announced in the Union Budget amounting to savings of Rs 17,500 for the middle class along with an increase in the rebate limit to Rs 7 lakh in the new tax regime last year is ‘sufficient’ relief over a period of two years, Revenue Secretary Sanjay Malhotra said.There has been some criticism regarding the direct tax slab rejig in the 2024 Budget leading to savings of Rs 17,500. The tax relief, while a positive step, is seen as not significantly impactful for lower and middle-income taxpayers. Critics argue that the relief provided is insufficient given the rising cost of living and inflation pressures.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“Budget has given relief of Rs 17,500 this year. In last year's Union Budget, we had reduced the number of tax slabs, and adjusted the rebate limit in the new tax regime to Rs 7 lakh, effectively giving relief of Rs 37,500 in comparison to the old tax regime.”“Over a period of two years, this relief in personal income tax, we believe is sufficient,” Malhotra told Moneycontrol in an interview.Budget 2024 has enhanced the standard deduction from Rs 50,000 to Rs 75,000 in the new tax regime. Also, the tax structure in the low to middle slabs has been raised slightly upwards thus reducing the tax liability. As per the calculations of the Finance Ministry, owing to the above changes, a salaried employee under the new tax regime would save up to Rs 17,500 in income tax.
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 08:18 PM IST with headline  Data Innovation Lab announced by ministry of statistics and programme implementation to improve stats quality is: 
 Data innovation lab by MoSPI ot become operational Paving the way for more collaboration to enhance its statistical and technological capabilities, the Ministry of Statistics and program implementation on July 23 notified the guidelines for its data innovation lab.The ministry also announced the formation of a selection committee that shall gather proposals from researchers to develop methodologies that can help improve the quality of the national statistical system and the creation of beta statistics, which rely on innovative ideas to develop databases and find new ways for data collection.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“Objective of Data Innovation Lab is to promote innovation, adoption of Information Technology in the field of official statistics, including survey-related methodology and address the challenges being faced by the National Statistical System (NSS),” the ministry noted.The governing council, which consists of the secretary of the ministry as chairperson will also decide on the framework for the innovation lab.“The functions related to the formation of DI Lab like the creation of sandboxing environment/availability of Hardware and software etc. may be facilitated through appropriate partners/outsourcing,” the guidelines highlighted.
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 07:14 PM IST with headline  GST buoyancy expected to decline, but will stay above one, says CBIC Chairman is: 
 GST buoyancy to decline but stay above 1 Tax buoyancy from Goods and Services Tax is expected to come down in the coming years, but will stay above one, said Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, Chairman, Central Board of Indirect Taxes & Customs (CBIC), in a post-Budget interaction with Moneycontrol.“The compliance levels are going up, tax buoyancy cannot remain that high,” Agarwal noted.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe ministry has set a target of increasing GST collections by 11 percent in FY25, against a GDP growth of 10.5 percent.Growth in GST collections had declined to a three-year low of 7.7 percent in June, compared to 10 percent in the previous month.“GST, after seven years, has fairly stabilised and that is reflected in the revenue that is coming from it,” Agarwal said.
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 09:45 PM IST with headline  12.5% LTCG is low compared to global standards, says Finance Secretary Somanathan is: 
 12.5% LTCG is low compared to global standards, says Finance Secretary Somanathan The Union Budget 2024-25 sent the markets into a tizzy with its announcements on long-term capital gains tax. However, the budget has been hailed for its fiscal prudence, focus on employment for the youth, and closing the gap in skills in the workforce. Moneycontrol spoke to the chief architects of the budget, Finance Secretary T.V. Somanathan and DIPAM Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey, about the rationale behind their decisions and the likely impact of the budget measures on the economy over the next few months. Edited excerpts:Shweta Punj: The budget assumes nominal GDP growth of 10.5 percent for FY25. However, inflation continues to be a concern. So, what is the real GDP that you are expecting? Are you expecting it to be somewhere around 7 percent?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdT. V. Somanathan: For the purpose of budget making, we don’t need to estimate real growth. We only need to estimate nominal growth. I am just being very practical. I am confident the nominal growth is unlikely to be below 10.5 percent. So that’s how we fixed our estimates on the basis of 10.5 percent, because if you have real growth of 6.5 percent and inflation of 4 percent, you are at 10.5 percent. If you have real growth of 7 percent, inflation of 3.5 percent, you are at 10.5 percent. I think the likely numbers will be in this range. Growth between 6.5 percent and 7 percent, and inflation here is a combination of CPI and WPI, is likely to be in the range of 3.5 percent to 4 percent. So that combination of numbers means 10.5 percent is probably the best number for us to pick.Punj: There is a sense that this time around, maybe you could have gone easier on the fiscal prudence bit and maybe spent a little bit more because allocations across a lot of your flagship schemes haven’t really gone up substantially. What’s the thought process?Somanathan: But you need to look at the actuals of the previous year and see what the spending capacity on those schemes is. So it’s not as if we have not provided for any of the schemes. We have provided what the scheme can absorb, and many of them are centrally sponsored schemes with implementations done by states that require states to actually do the last mile. And the flow of funds depends crucially on their ability to execute that last mile.
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 06:29 PM IST with headline  Budget nudges growth in the immediate term, opens pathways for new reforms   is: 
 The macroeconomic impact of budgetary announcements is positive in the short term. The first budget in the third term of the newly elected Narendra Modi government called for some reshaping of its policy path, as it looked forward to the next five fiscals and at the Viksit Bharat 2047 goals. The fact that another budget looms seven months from now provides a chance for course correction, just in case. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSo, the opportunity was to set the ball rolling on new policy pitches that take cognisance of new areas that may require support to ensure resilient, sustainable and more equitable growth. Put another way, there is time to prepare and test the waters. Against this backdrop, let’s take stock of what the full Union Budget for 2025 does.
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 06:22 PM IST with headline  For key infrastructure sectors, the Union Budget 2024 is par for the course is: 
 The Centre wants to undertake infrastructure development with states in tow. The full Union Budget for this fiscal was business as usual on the infrastructure front, sending a subtle message that the private sector should step up investments in the infrastructure buildout, while the government takes a pause.While this could be the intended outcome, there was no definite call-out in the budget.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFurther, surprisingly, there was little to no mention on monetisation of infrastructure assets, which has gained traction in recent years.The overall budget outlay was unchanged, at Rs 11.11 lakh crore, for fiscal 2025.The Centre wants to undertake infrastructure development with states in tow. It gave significant attention to cities to tackle the rapid urbanisation across the country.
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 05:51 PM IST with headline  Finally, getting down to the brass tacks in a budget is: 
 budget The Economic Survey tabled in Parliament on the eve of the Budget presentation, offers an unexpected narrative of the Indian economy. It is a sobering document much in tune with the situation we find ourselves at this juncture. It needs to be read carefully, for its messaging is, I come with a critique and not to praise it. The Chief Economic Advisor deserves kudos for that. Naturally there are obligatory statements about India shining, even as the global economy remains subdued. And indeed at the macro level, we have done well with high real GDP growth and a macroeconomy that is approaching $4 trillion.On understanding complexitiesStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFor a Survey of its breadth and depth, there are many things one can pick on, but none as quickly as the courageous statement that suggests that ‘few people outside government (living or dead) can understand the complexity of governance in India’ The complexities relate to economic, cultural, geographic, regional and others. Arguably, even within government the understanding of this complexity could be rare. For if such complexities were understood in their entirety, the government would eschew the temptation of making palpably unattainable promises and policy makers would push back against such targets.I am speaking of doubling farmer’s income in five years, increasing employment by 20 million and achieving $2 trillion worth of exports to name just a few. These are obviously political statements and acumen would demand they be appreciated as such. To however, mask the weaknesses of the economy, whether these are structural or cyclical, internal or external, self-inflicted or circumstantial and attribute the challenger’s narrative to a lack of understanding is disingenuous at best and an attempt to divert at worst. It is also unkind to the intelligence of academics, sociologists and economists, historians and demographers among others who spend their time engaging in deep and meaningful research of India and its peoples.The Cambridge economist Joan Robinson who visited India for only a few days but worked on the Indian economy for several years had famously said that whatever you say about India at a point in time, the exact opposite is also true at the same point in time. Many people within and outside government have quoted Joan Robinson no doubt because they agree with that assessment.
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 05:12 PM IST with headline  Govt employee count rises for first time since FY19, spending per head also on the up is: 
 Employee strength rises for first time post 2019 The Centre reversed a five-year downsizing trend in FY24, expanding its workforce to 3.56 million, a Moneycontrol analysis of Budget documents shows.The number of employees working for the Union government fell to its lowest in nearly a decade at 3.17 million in FY23, capping a consistent drop since FY19, when staff strength was at 3.27 million.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe employee numbers hit a peak of 3.33 million in FY14, Budget documents show.A look at the numbers provided in Budget documents also shows that the senior-to-junior employee ratio may have also worsened during these years.
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 04:21 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | No country for Indian traders is: 
 While big and small traders are complaining about the tax hikes, the investor community and government authorities are welcoming the move. Dear Reader,The day after the Budget, the primary topic of conversation is the increase in taxes on all aspects of trading and investing. While big and small traders are complaining about the tax hikes, the investor community and government authorities are welcoming the move.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn her Budget, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman raised long-term capital gains (LTCG) tax on financial and non-financial assets from 10 percent to 12.5 percent. Short-term capital gains (STCG) will now be taxed at 20 percent, up from the previous 15 percent.The finance minister increased the Securities Transaction Tax (STT) from 0.02 percent to 0.1 percent, a fivefold increase in F&O trades.Investors and government authorities believe the tax increases are modest, with potential for further hikes. The rise in LTCG from 10 percent to 12.5 percent is minimal and affects only a small portion of participants, as only one percent of traders in India pay LTCG. Most of those affected are in the HNI segment, meaning the impact on retail traders will be negligible.
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 04:15 PM IST with headline  Rupee falls 1 paisa to revisit all-time low of 83.70 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee falls 1 paisa to revisit all-time low of 83.70 against US dollar The rupee depreciated 1 paisa to revisit its all-time closing low of 83.70 (provisional) against the US dollar on Wednesday, weighed down by a strong dollar against major crosses overseas amid investors' weak appetite for riskier assets.Forex traders said the increase in capital gains tax and removal of indexation benefits announced in the FY25 Budget on Tuesday was the main reason for dollar buying as foreign investors sold stocks.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 83.69 and touched an intra-day high of 83.68 and a low of 83.72 against the dollar during the session.It finally settled at an all-time low level of 83.70 (provisional) against the American currency, registering a fall of 1 paisa from its previous close.On Tuesday, the rupee declined 3 paise to 83.69 against the US dollar after the government raised tax rates on capital gains in the FY25 Budget.
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 04:19 PM IST with headline  Budget signals shift in infra strategy as govt pushes states, private sector to pitch in is: 
 India has earmarked Rs 11.1 lakh crore for capex in Budget 2024-25, representing 3.4 percent of GDP. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced that the capex budget for 2024-25 would be Rs 11.1 lakh crore, or 3.4 percent of GDP, maintaining it at the same levels as announced in the interim budget. Despite the seemingly substantial allocation, infrastructure expert Vinayak Chatterjee notes the government’s shift towards decentralizing infrastructure investment, emphasizing a bottom-up approach to spur economic growth.In her budget speech on July 24, the FM identified infrastructure as a top priority, highlighting its strong multiplier effect on the economy. She emphasized on the Central Government’s significant investments in the past and committed to maintaining robust fiscal support for infrastructure over the next five years, balancing this with other priorities and fiscal consolidation.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“This budget marks a strategic shift in mindset of how microeconomic policy is panning out. From 2014 till last year, the governing mantra was that large infrastructure and public works outlays were pump-priming the economy and GDP. To that extent, we saw a consistent government policy over the years of increasing the budget allocation significantly, increasing by 25 percent-30 percent in the last few years. Investment in infrastructure was touted to have the highest multiplier effect and was creating assets for the nation. Now we find a significant underplaying of the infrastructure sector where we have just got 11.1 percent increase,” Vinayak Chatterjee, Chairman, CII infrastructure council and founder and managing trustee The Infravision Foundation, told Moneycontrol in an interview.The Economic Survey 2023-24, which was tabled on July 22, was a precursor to this change in stance, he said. The survey called upon the private sector to create jobs and scale up investments and the need to minimise the role the government plays.No Big Bang Infra Announcements
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 04:06 PM IST with headline  India budget extends economic momentum to social equity is: 
 This budget also scores high on fiscal consolidation trajectory. By Sudipta Roy The Union Budget announced today lays down the ‘roadmap for pursuit of Viksit Bharat’ with measures spanning long term macro-economic framework, steps to unlock the potential of agriculture sector, emphasis on creating formal jobs and skill building while focusing on promoting innovation and also outlining the next generation policy framework for sustained and inclusive economic growth.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFast tracking the growth of rural economy has been duly prioritised with policy steps towards both increasing public investment in rural infrastructure and extending policy attention to agricultural and allied activities like horticulture, improvement of supply chains, natural farming, among others. Some specific policy steps like mission to achieve self-sufficiency in pulses and oilseeds, promoting Farmer-Producer Organizations, cooperatives, advancing agricultural productivity through research and natural farming practices and promoting start-ups for vegetable supply chains will bring in quick gains for the overall resilience of the sector. At the same time, steps like policy for development of the cooperative sector or comprehensive review of the agriculture research setup will help address long term issue in the agricultural sector.Efforts to bring in inclusive growth towards a sustainable long-term growth trajectory is commendable. The states lagging in development have been included in a separate development plan encompassing human resource development through skill development, boosting infrastructure, industrial development and generation of economic opportunities to make them drivers of growth in the nation’s growth story. This will not only catalyse industrial development of the eastern region or financial development of the north eastern states but also lay the basic building blocks for inclusive and sustained long term growth path for the economy.The budget has provided a structural boost to consumption by prioritising employment and skill development, especially among the economically weaker sections through a focus on agriculture and welfare sectors. Some of the policy steps in this direction including, Employment linked incentives, scheme for skilling in collaboration with state governments and Industry, upgrading industrial training institutes should help generate productive employment in the non-agricultural sector, particularly in the formal sector.
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 03:44 PM IST with headline  India may cut borrowing if small saving inflows are high, says official is: 
 India may cut borrowing if small saving inflows are high, says official India could look at cutting gross borrowing later in the financial year if inflows into national small saving schemes (NSSF) are high, Economic Affairs Secretary Ajay Seth told Reuters on Wednesday.NSSF consists of public investments in schemes like postal deposits, savings certificates, public provident fund and senior citizens' savings scheme, among others.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe federal government has increased its reliance on borrowing from NSSF over the last few years to meet its funding requirements.In the federal announcement on Tuesday, the government reduced gross borrowing by Rs 12,000 crore to Rs 14.01 lakh crore for the fiscal year, and cut the fiscal deficit target by 20 basis points to 4.9%.Market participants were expecting the borrowing to be reduced by around Rs 50,000 crore, after a larger-than-expected surplus transfer from the Reserve Bank of India.However, the government decided to cut borrowing via shorter-dated treasury bills instead of government bonds.India is aiming at NSSF collections of Rs 4.2 lakh crore for the ongoing financial year, down from Rs 4.67 lakh crore in the interim budget
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 03:00 PM IST with headline  What did India search for on the Budget Day? is: 
 Gold dominates searches on Budget Tax rates, gold and employment were the most-searched categories among the many Budget announcements made by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on July 23, according to an analysis of Google Trends.The finance minister, in her Budget speech, cut the customs duty on gold by 6 percent while also announcing initiatives on employment, housing, and personal income tax.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhile the interest was focussed on employment and jobs as Sitharman started her speech, attention shifted to income tax, gold, and mobile phones as the finance minister’s speech unfolded, according to a Moneycontrol analysis of search trends.The trends also showed regional variations. For instance, Northeastern states, Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh, were more concerned about employment than Goa, Karnataka and Delhi, which showed greater interest in capital gains tax.The government increased the long-term capital gains tax to 12.5 percent while removing indexation benefits for properties purchased after 2001.
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 02:13 PM IST with headline  Mohamed El-Erian: Why I am now optimistic that economies can break out of a rut is: 
 - For the first time in two decades, I am optimistic that the economies of the advanced countries can decisively break out of a low-growth rut.For too long, insufficient growth has undermined economic wellbeing, structurally weakened increasingly fragile public finances, worsened inequality and made it more difficult to address global threats to lives and livelihoods such as climate change and pandemics.The roots of this problem can be traced back to the start of this century. Rather than focu
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 01:37 PM IST with headline  India needs to sell assets to support spending, JPMorgan says is: 
 India needs to sell assets to support spending, JPMorgan says India’s government needs to revive its asset monetization program to create revenue streams beyond taxes, which can help fund spending while keeping it on a fiscally prudent path, according to a top economist.“Over time it will be nice to see renewed focus on asset sales, monetization of infrastructure assets, and disinvestment as another source of revenue,” Sajjid Z. Chinoy, chief India economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., told Bloomberg TV’s Menaka Doshi on Wednesday. “Over the next 10 years, India will have huge expenditure obligations.”Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPrime Minister Narendra Modi, who returned to power last month with a weaker mandate, is under pressure to spend more to shore up voter support and meet the demands of his coalition partners.The federal budget released Tuesday targeted a smaller fiscal deficit for this year on the back of a record dividend from the Reserve Bank of India and a surge in tax revenues.Next year, the government aims to bring down the budget gap even further, which is necessary for India to win a credit rating upgrade. India’s debt is currently rated at the lowest investment-grade level.
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 12:26 PM IST with headline  July Flash PMI signals strong growth, higher inflation is: 
 A strong PMI reading provides a solid fundamental basis for an optimistic market outlook. Is the strong growth in the Indian economy finally signalling higher core inflation? That seems to be the case if the Flash Purchasing Managers Index for July is anything to go by. As the accompanying chart shows, the HSBC India Composite Flash PMI, an advance measure of the final PMI based on responses from 80-90 percent of those surveyed for the month, came in at 61.4 for July, higher than June’s 60.9. The last two months hav
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 11:14 AM IST with headline  Gold import surge under FTAs prompts duty cut in Budget: CBIC chairman is: 
 Gems and jewellery sector contributes to 8 percent of India’s total exports. A surge in imports under free trade agreement, lower current account deficit and a spate in smuggling prompted the Union Budget to slash duty on gold from 15 percent to 6 percent, according to Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) Chairman Sanjay Kumar Agarwal.“During the period that the import duty on gold had gone up, we noticed that gold imports under certain free trade agreements (FTAs) had gone up. In addition to that, smuggling was on a rise. Due to all these factors, we decided to reduce the import duty on gold,” Agarwal told Moneycontrol in an interview after the Union Budget 2024-25 was tabled on July 23.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThere has been a sharp increase in gold imports largely because of duty concessions provided by India to the UAE under the Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement. India's imports of gold and silver from the UAE surged 210 percent to $10.7 billion in FY24, according to economic think tank Global Trade Research Initiative (GTRI).As far as smuggling is concerned, in 2022-23, the Indian authorities seized 3,800 kilograms of smuggled gold. India's customs department seized 2,000 kg in the first half of 2023-24, 43 percent more than the haul a year back.In July 2023, the basic customs duty on refined gold bars was increased to 12.5 percent along with maintaining the Agriculture and Infrastructure Cess (AIDC) at 2.5 percent​. The government had on January 22 increased the import duty on gold and silver findings, used in making jewellery, and on precious metal coins to 15 percent to bring them in line with duties on gold and silver bars.
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 10:35 AM IST with headline  Private sector activity rises to three-month high of 61.4 in July: PMI data is: 
 Flash PMI shows economy on strong footing Private sector activity rose to a three-month high of 61.4 in July compared with 60.9 in the previous month, according to preliminary data released on July 24.The HSBC Flash India Composite Output Index remained above the 50-mark, which separates expansion from contraction for 36th consecutive month.Story continues below AdvertisementPrivate sector activity had picked up in June from a five-month low of 60.5 in May, as both manufacturing and services had both witnessed a pickup in activity.Services PMI had risen to 60.5 in June from 60.2 in the previous month, while manufacturing PMI had risen to 58.3 compared with 57.5 in the previous month.The NCAER-NSE survey released last week showed that activity in the first quarter is likely to be better than in the previous quarter. The outlook for the future had also improved.The Indian economy is likely to perform better than earlier expected, with international agencies raising growth forecast closer to or above 7 percent.The PMIs had noted a pickup in employment in June.The government in its Budget on July 23 announced employment linked incentive schemes to spur job creation in the economy
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 10:26 AM IST with headline  Budget 2024 outlines roadmap for 'Viksit Bharat', focus on poor, women, youth and farmers is: 
 The government has taken focussed steps on rural development, manufacturing, skilling. By Rahul Kakkad The government has themed this budget on four major pillars i.e. Poor, Women, Youth and Farmers with focus on employment, skilling, MSMEs and the middle class with a total central outlay of around Rs 2 lakh crores over a 5-year period.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn line with the strategy laid down in the interim budget, this budget lays down a roadmap in pursuit of ‘Viksit Bharat’ with 9 priorities including agriculture, employment and skilling, manufacturing, infrastructure and steps have been taken in that regard.It is also proposed to simplify the rules for FDI. While changes with respect to the same would be announced separately, liberalization to the FDI regime on multi brand retail would be closely looked at.From a personal tax front, changes made to the new tax regime for individuals is expected to benefit the salaried employee up to Rs 17,500 in income tax leading to more disposable income which is a welcome move.
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 09:59 AM IST with headline  CBIC chief says it's hard to correct inverted customs duty due to FTA exemptions is: 
 Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) Chairman Sanjay Kumar Agarwal Though the Union Budget proposed to review the customs levies over the next six months for inverted duty correction, Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) Chairman Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said it will be a difficult task in many cases because of nil rate on some items under free trade agreements (FTAs).“We have received certain proposals, corrections for inverted duty in customs. But if the inversion is happening because the rate of duty is nil under free trade agreements (FTAs), then it is difficult to correct it,” Agarwal told Moneycontrol in an interview.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndia has FTAs with countries like the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Australia. These pacts aim to promote trade by reducing or eliminating customs duty on a range of goods.In the customs duty ambit, inverted duty structure is seen in items like leather, textiles and engineering goods. The duty structure is inverted when the import levy on a finished product is lower than that on raw materials and intermediate goods, which discourages domestic manufacturing. This is particularly true of manufacturers that are heavily dependent on imported raw materials.“However, the inverted rate of customs duty on items which are not manufactured in India, can easily be corrected,” Agarwal said.
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 09:57 AM IST with headline  Digital initiative, financial inclusion and MSME troika takes centre stage for Budget 2024 is: 
 DFM takes centre stage in this year's Budget. By Gurpreet ChhatwalThe Union Budget for full fiscal 2025 strongly emphasises the critical role the financial sector needs to play in supporting economic growth through a series of welcome announcements. These will arm the lenders in increasing credit flow to the crucial sectors of the economy and optimise outcomes in 3 critical areas — credit expansion, financial inclusion and stressed assets resolution.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAnd the tools used are referred to as the DFM troika, i.e., digital or tech-enabled initiatives, financial inclusion, and MSME (micro, small and medium enterprise) support measures.Digital InitiativesFirst, technology initiatives in agriculture through successful implementation of the Digital Public Infrastructure (DPI) can expand lending to this segment, supported by strengthened underwriting and monitoring to control the traditionally high non-performing assets in the sector.
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 11:13 AM IST with headline  Indexation benefit of LTCG tax in real estate only marginally covered inflation costs, says CBDT chief is: 
 The new tax of 12.5 percent without indexation will be more beneficial for taxpayers. The indexation benefit available on long-term capital gains (LTCG) in real estate deals only marginally took care of the inflation seen in property prices, which have jumped five times in the last 10 years, Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) Chairman Ravi Agarwal said.The government's analysis shows the new 12.5 percent rate in LTCG tax will be more beneficial for the taxpayers, he added after Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman tabled the Union Budget for 2024-25 on July 23.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhile the Budget reduced the LTCG tax on real estate deals from 20 percent to 12.5 percent, the removal of the indexation benefit against inflation sparked a concern that it will add to the burden on the middle class.“Though the indexation benefit on LTCG in real estate has been removed, the government’s analysis shows that in the last 10 years while the cost of property has increased 5 times, the indexation benefit was only marginally taking care of the inflation. As against that the capital gains tax was 20 percent,” Agarwal told Moneycontrol in an interview.“On comparing the data of the last 10 years, if a person is holding a property and the property appreciation is 4-5 times, the new tax of 12.5 percent without indexation will be beneficial. Keeping in view the increase in property rates, the new tax announced in the Budget will be beneficial for taxpayers,” he said.
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 07:59 AM IST with headline  Budget adopts an ‘optimal approach’ in tax slab rejig, says CBDT chairman is: 
 Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) Chairman Ravi Agrawal With the Union Budget 2024-25 recasting the tax slabs that would result in savings of Rs 17,500 for the middle class, Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) Chairman Ravi Agarwal said the government adopted an "optimal approach" which will benefit 65 percent of the taxpayers who have moved to the new regime.“This budget has increased the lower tax slabs to Rs 3-7 lakh and Rs 7-10 lakh. The old tax regime has higher rates. All in all, we feel an optimal approach has been adopted, which will benefit all the taxpayers,” Agarwal told Moneycontrol in an interview.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhile the tax slabs were rejigged for the new tax regime, the old tax regime rates were left untouched in the Budget.“People are coming and adopting the new tax regime. As much as 65 percent taxpayers across have adopted the new tax regime, people are finding it beneficial,” he said.The standard deduction for salaried employees was also increased from Rs 50,000 to Rs 75,000. The government will have to forego revenue of Rs 29,000 crore in direct taxes.
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 06:50 AM IST with headline  Deficit targets achievable; sustained fiscal consolidation must for upgrades: Rating agencies is: 
 Hoping for a ratings upgrade Rating agencies noted that the fiscal deficit target of 4.9 percent set by the government in its July 23 Union Budget will be achievable, but a rating action would require a sustained consolidation, leading to a reduction in government debt.“Sustained fiscal consolidation, which supports a downward trajectory in the government debt ratio over the medium term would be supportive of India’s credit profile, particularly when combined with the current positive momentum on macroeconomic performance and external finances,” said Jeremy Zook, director and primary sovereign analyst for India at Fitch Ratings.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdNirmala Sitharaman in her Budget speech reaffirmed the government’s commitment to bring down the fiscal deficit to below 4.5 percent by the next fiscal. The government lowered the fiscal deficit target to 4.9 percent from 5.1 percent earlier.“We will continue to assess the impact the gradual improvement in fiscal outlook will have on the medium-term debt trajectory as a key factor in our ongoing monitoring of India’s rating,” Zook added.Fitch Ratings, which recently revised India’s growth forecast to 7.2 percent, also noted that not only 4.9 percent, even the target of bringing down fiscal deficit to below 4.5 percent seemed achievable.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 10:44 PM IST with headline  Finance Secretary TV Somanathan confident nominal GDP growth is unlikely to be below 10.5% is: 
 TV Somanathan on GDP in budget 2024 The seventh budget of Nirmala Sitharaman and the maiden budget of Modi government’s third term kept the nominal growth target unchanged at 10.5% for 2024-25. On whether a nominal growth target of 10.5% at a time when inflation is still hovering around 7 per cent would imply that India could see sub 7 per cent growth for the fiscal year 2024-25, Somanathan told Moneycontrol: “I am confident the nominal GDP growth is unlikely to be below 10.5%. If you have real growth of 6.5% and inflation of 4% , you have 10.5%, if your real GDP is 7% , inflation of 3.5%, you have 10.5%.”Nominal growth is inclusive of inflation while real growth is not. In FY 2023-24, India’s real GDP growth was at 8.2% while nominal growth was at 9.6%.Story continues below AdvertisementThe Reserve Bank of India has projected a growth of 7.2% in FY 2024-25. The Economic Survey has given a conservative projection of growth between 6.5-7%.On inflation, Somanathan added that he expects a combination of WPI and CPI to be between 3.5-4 per cent. The RBI has projected inflation to close at 4.55% in fiscal year 2024-25. The Economic Survey had noted that India’s short term inflation outlook as benign
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 09:39 PM IST with headline  Economists laud Budget’s fiscal prudence, say opens path to ratings upgrade is: 
 The budget kept the capex allocation unchanged at Rs 11.11 lakh crore, 16.9 percent higher than the previous year’s spend. The Union Budget has done well to keep to the fiscal consolidation roadmap while taking measures to boost consumption, economists said in their post-budget reaction, further noting that the steps are likely to help with fiscal consolidation.“Considering the Indian economy has been in a sweet spot lately, we believe pursuing counter-cyclical fiscal policy should help strengthen India's macroeconomic stability and create a foundation for strong medium-term growth,” said Tanvee Gupta Jain, UBS economist.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdJain further noted that this raised the possibility of a rating upgrade by one of the three ratings agencies within the next 18-24 months.The finance minister lowered the fiscal deficit target to 4.9 percent for FY25 compared with 5.1 percent in the interim budget.“From 2026-27 onwards, our endeavour will be to keep the fiscal deficit each year such that the Central Government debt will be on a declining path as a percentage of GDP,” the FM further noted.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 08:45 PM IST with headline  A credible math makes for a convincing fiscal consolidation in the Union Budget is: 
 The Budget math sends out the signal that the government is committed to fiscal consolidation while maintaining growth Highlights - Quarterly performance largely backed by improved realisations - Medium-term triggers China plus and protectionist measures for tyre industry - Valuations not inexpensive; but improved medium-term outlook The fiscal deficit pegged at 4.9 percent of the GDP was one of the key highlights if not the major good news from the Union Budget. But fiscal deficit is just a ratio and the key lies in the credibility of the numbers in the numerator as well as the denominator.Turning to the denominator first, the nominal GDP growth of 10.5 percent is well within the forecast range of the experts – with the RBI expecting
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 08:32 PM IST with headline  FM builds on Economic Surveys data approach in Budget is: 
 Budget bats for data integration Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, in her Budget speech, built on the ground laid by the Economic Survey on integrating more datasets for decision-making.“For improving data governance, collection, processing, and management of data and statistics, different sectoral databases, including those established under the Digital India mission, will be utilised with active use of technology tools,” the finance minister said in the government’s maiden budget.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn another instance, the government in its big job push also talked about integrating the e-shram portal with other portals to provide a wide array of services.“Open architecture databases for the rapidly changing labour 19 market, skill requirements and available job roles, and a mechanism to connect job aspirants with potential employers and skill providers will be covered in these services,” she noted.The push is also evident in allocation to the Ministry of statistics and programme implementation, which witnessed over 20 percent increase in its budget for capacity development to Rs 531 crore from Rs 439 crore in the previous year.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 08:16 PM IST with headline  Amid push for Employment Linked Incentive schemes, PLI allocations double in FY25 is: 
 Auto PLI gets a boost Allocations to production-linked incentive (PLI) schemes rose to nearly Rs 12,500 crore in FY25 from just under Rs 7,000 crore spent in the previous fiscal, according to Budget 2024.The increase is led by the auto scheme, where the allocation jumped seven times to Rs 3,500 crore. Further analysis indicates a push for white goods PLI as well, with an outlay of Rs 298 crore from Rs 65 crore in the previous year.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdACC battery’s allocation has increased to Rs 250 crore from Rs 12 crore spent in FY24 revised estimates.While allocations across the schemes remained unchanged from the interim Budget, textiles witnessed a push with the government budgeting Rs 45 crore, instead of the Rs 5 crore given in the interim Budget.Earlier this month, the government had reopened applications for the white goods scheme.The scheme has witnessed Rs 6,962 crore commitments from manufacturers since inception.The finance minister in her budget also announced an employment-linked incentive scheme to push for job creation.“These will be based on enrolment in the EPFO, and focus on recognition of first-time employees, and support to employees and employers,” the FM had said.Story continues below AdvertisementThe Economic Survey released on the eve of the Budget talked about supplementing PLI efforts in job creation and talked about the need to create 7.9 million jobs annually until 2036
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 08:05 PM IST with headline  Budget's duty reduction on leather imports to boost demand is: 
 The cost reduction in leather is likely to be passed on to end-s as footwear companies. Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × The government has reduced the customs duty on wet white, crust, and finished leather used in the manufacture of leather/synthetic footwear from 10 percent to zero. Leather is a key raw material for footwear manufacturers such as Bata India and , which have significant leather-based offerings (formal and office wear shoes). Leather as a raw material is mostly imported and the duty reduction is likely to reduce input costs for these companies. We expect about 5 percent reduction in leather footwear prices, considering that raw material forms about half of the overall costs.The cost reduction is likely to be passed on to end-consumers as footwear companies are facing subdued SSSG (same store sales growth). Bata posted flattish sales in FY24, while Metro Brands sales growth has moderated to 10 percent YoY in the same period. Price reductions will boost demand and would be positive for these companies
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 07:39 PM IST with headline  Where is India’s capex going? is: 
 Defence corners significant proportion of capex push Although the finance minister kept the capital expenditure target unchanged from the interim Budget at Rs 11.11 lakh crore, it still marks a 16.9 percent increase from the previous year.This year’s allocation is Rs 1.6 lakh crore higher than last year's spend of Rs 9.5 lakh crore. A Moneycontrol analysis of 102 departments in the Budget shows that five departments cornered most of it.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFrom Rs 1.6 lakh crore, Rs 60,000 crore will go to the department of economic affairs as outlay for other general services, which will be assigned to respective ministries later, and another Rs 47,000 crore will be allocated to states.Of the over Rs 50,000-crore increase, defence, communications, railways, roads and police will account for over 90 percent of the spend.The defence budget is up 9.4 percent from the previous year, while telecom capex is 20.5 percent higher. Police services also got a capex push with a 32.8 percent increase in capital allocation.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 09:25 PM IST with headline  A Game-Changer Budget: Angel tax axed, MSMEs empowered is: 
 budget Budget 2024 packs a wide range of proposals that address many issues that the industry and the government have been discussing for a while. It is heartening to note that the Finance Minister has chosen to take up these for resolution in the first budget of the Modi 3.0 government. At the top of the list is the abolition of Angel Tax, which has been a major source of confusion for young start-ups relying on external capital. For a start-up to have to pay tax on the money the capital it raises from external investors was an anomaly. With the Angel tax now gone, it removes the uncertainty and will help start-ups and investors move ahead without this overhang.Another ask over the years has been for the reduction of LTCG on unlisted equities, which has been met with the tax rate moving down from 20% to 12.5%, albeit with the removal of indexation. Will be interesting to see whether this is a net positive or not for the investors in the startup ecosystem.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe government has reiterated its commitment to the digital economy by reducing the TDS that an e-commerce operator needs to deduct from the gross value of sales on the platform. This reduction from 1% to 0.1% aligns with the government's objective of following the money flow and also frees up the working capital of online sellers to invest in growth. Another encouraging news for the online economy is the government’s proposal for the public sector banks to use the digital footprint of MSMEs to assess their creditworthiness, moving away from external valuations. This is an insightful move to leverage the digital trail that online businesses provide and use that to benefit honest, tax-compliant online sellers.India’s sterling achievements in the space tech sector and its potential are anchored by the Rs 1000 Cr venture capital fund allocation for space tech development. The liberalisation of Indian space sector rules in June 2022 to allow private space companies to own and operate space assets has ignited a lot of growth in the sector. With support from government agencies, Indian space tech startups have demonstrated and validated their technologies successfully. The next phase is about commercialisation, including selling to global customers. Cliched as it will sound, the sky is indeed the limit here.MSMEs are the lifeblood of India and the budget has a host of measures to support their growth. Collateral-free loans, new guarantee scheme for MSMEs in the manufacturing segment, SIDBI branches in MSMEs clusters are a boost for this vital sector. Anything that strengthens their standing has a multiplier effect on employment, tax collections and in supporting other businesses and individuals that support this sector.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 07:25 PM IST with headline  Budget 2024: Privatisation of PSUs will happen but best time to be decided, says FM is: 
 FM on banks The privatisation of public sector undertakings (PSUs) is very much on the table and the government is committed to carry it out as these are the decisions of the Union Cabinet, though the timing for it will have to be decided, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on July 23.“Privatisation of PSUs, a cabinet decision, has to be honored. But timing has to be chosen by the government depending on what's the best time” Sitharaman said at a press briefing post the presentation of the Union Budget in the Parliament.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSitharaman said that the PSUs have been giving high dividends on account of good growth.The combined market cap of 81 listed PSUs, including banks and insurance companies, has grown by 225% in the last three years, on the back of higher government capex and better capital management, Sitharaman had said on May 8.Four public sector banks, including Canara Bank and Indian Bank, on July 10 gave dividends worth Rs 6,481 crore for financial year 2023-24.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 07:25 PM IST with headline  This pharma stock gets the Budget tonic is: 
 Budget has scrapped the basic customs duty on cancer drugs Trastuzumab Deruxtecan, Osimertinib, and Durvalumab In a key announcement, the Union Budget has scrapped the basic customs duty on cancer drugs Trastuzumab Deruxtecan, Osimertinib, and Durvalumab. The extant duty was 10 percent.One interesting beneficiary of this announcement is Astrazeneca Pharma India Ltd, which is owned by MNC AstraZeneca plc. These drugs are manufactured by Astrazeneca in the US/UK and are imported to India.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe company launched Trastuzumab Deruxtecan in India in January this year for the treatment of breast cancer. As recently as March, the company received an approval from the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) to import for the sale and distribution of Trastuzumab Deruxtecan for two new indications.In its annual report, the company mentions that in the last financial year Durvalumab (Imfinzi) was adopted as a standard care for indicated patients with advanced Biliary Tract Cancer (BTC). The rapid adoption and growth of Imfinzi in BTC was the key driver for the overall growth of the brand in the FY24.While these are recent developments, Osimertinib (Tagrisso) is the company’s key offering for the treatment of lung cancer. Tagrisso is one of the Top Ten oncology brands in India as per IPSOS MAT Jun ’23 and continues to be the largest oncology brand by sales for AstraZeneca India.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 07:14 PM IST with headline  Budget 2024 message - Modi has heard voters, NDA 3.0 is on the ‘job’ is: 
 Jobs, or the lack thereof, was singled out by many as one of the reasons why the BJP lost ground to the Opposition on June 4. After the BJP found itself chastised by the voters in the recently concluded Lok Sabha election there was only one question that was left to be asked: Will Prime Minister Modi hear the voter’s message?The question has been significantly answered in the affirmative by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman while presenting her 7th consecutive budget – a new record surpassing the 6 consecutive budgets presented by Morarji Desai.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdJobs, or the lack thereof, was singled out by many as one of the reasons why the BJP lost ground to the Opposition on June 4. Today, the BJP led NDA has taken a major step in focusing on the employment challenge by rolling out an Employment Linked Incentive (ELI) scheme.Under this scheme, the government has allocated Rs 2 Lakh crore for the ELI scheme to create jobs over the next five years. The scheme includes a direct benefit transfer of one month’s salary in three installments, up to Rs 15,000, to first-time employees registered in the Employees Provident Fund Organsiation (EPFO).Importantly, the scheme will incentivize additional employment in the manufacturing sector linked to the employment of the first-time employees. The incentive will be paid out up to Rs 3,000 per month for two years towards their EPFO contribution for each additional employee. Not just offering employment, but this will also give a reason to employers to formalize jobs which is much needed.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 06:49 PM IST with headline  No pandering, smart adjustments and boosting urban redevelopment are budget’s highlights is: 
 Budget 2024 bears the firm imprint of the Prime Minister’s steadfast resolve to not let ‘political expediency result in bad economics.’ The first budget of Modi 3.0, so eloquently presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, bears the firm imprint of the Prime Minister’s steadfast resolve to not let ‘political expediency result in bad economics.’ Consequently, all commentators expecting handouts for better electoral outcomes for the ruling party, in the coming three state elections have been again disappointed. There is not even one announcement in the budget that could be singled out as pandering to the voters’ whims and wishes.Yes, there has been the expected fiscal attention given to Andhra Pradesh and Bihar, but this also has been done with a degree of finesse so as not to derail the continued focus on fiscal consolidation. The majority of allocations to these two states will be arranged as additional resource mobilization with the help of multilateral development banks, presumably as soft interest loans underwritten by the central government. Smart move.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFiscal consolidation will boost private capex revivalThe fiscal deficit is targeted to be brought down to 4.9% from the earlier estimate of 5.1 percent. Clearly, the government decided not to splurge windfall receipts from the RBI which handed over a dividend income, double the amount assumed in the interim budget.With lower fiscal deficit, and the expected larger supplies of foreign portfolio capital inflows, as India’s weight in international bond indices improves further, we may see a softening of bond yields. This will give the RBI needed confidence to reduce interest rates, which in turn will likely drive greater capital investment by corporates and also by households in real estate. The private investment cycle, already on the upswing, finally, will be reinforced.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 06:30 PM IST with headline  Implications of Budget 2024 announcements on indirect taxes is: 
 Announcements on indirect taxes will help in ease of trade, removal of duty inversion and reduction in disputes. The vision of ‘Viksit Bharat’ by 2047 has been the driving force for Finance Minister, Nirmala Sitharaman as she presented the budget 2024-25 which revolves around the theme to facilitate employment generation, skill development with prime focus on MSMEs. In line with the said vision, the budget kept its focus on 9 priority sectors which included manufacturing, services, energy security and infrastructure development.The budget continues to promote ‘Make in India’ policy by supporting domestic manufacturing, deepening local value addition, promoting export competitiveness, and simplifying taxation. With this agenda, conditional exemptions/ concessional rates provided under Customs have been rationalized. The same will help in ease of trade, removal of duty inversion and reduction in disputes. Further, there have been certain sectoral specific exemptions and duty reductions in the field of medicine and medical equipment, mobile phones and parts, and critical minerals.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTo provide ease of doing business, the government has provided relief to the long standing ask of the industry in terms of rules of origin which have been relaxed by enabling acceptance of different types of proof of origin provided in trade agreements in order to align it with new trade agreements which provide for self-certification. Other such measures include increase in time-period from 3 years to 5 years, of duty free re-import of goods exported out under warranty from India as well as increase in duration from 6 months to 1 years for export in the case of aircraft and vessels imported for maintenance, repair and overhauling.The FM has emphasised in her speech that GST reforms continue to be a priority and has reinforced the government’s intention to further simplify and rationalize the tax structure and its endeavor to expand it to the remaining sectors. After the last GST council held in June 24, the current budget has implemented the recommendations that were announced therein by bringing in the changes in the finance act.Overall, the Budget is focussed on boosting the manufacturing sector in India and improve the ease of business as well. While the budget has set its agenda right to move towards the path of developed economy by 2047, there needs to be an alignment of incentives to create the necessary ecosystem to further boost manufacturing in India.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 06:25 PM IST with headline  Why is the Budget seeking to dampen a growing equity cult? is: 
 Highlights - Quarterly performance largely backed by improved realisations - Medium-term triggers China plus and protectionist measures for tyre industry - Valuations not inexpensive; but improved medium-term outlook For long, the government was worried about the lack of financial savings in India. After COVID, the equity cult took root but surprisingly there is visible discomfort in the government about the same. If the Economic Survey’s scathing remark on equity valuations was the beginning, the budget’s tweaking of short-term and long-term capital gains tax is reaffirmation of the current thinking in government circles. Short-term capital gains tax has been raised from 15 to 20 percent an
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 06:25 PM IST with headline  Budget's tax cut benefit overshadowed by indexation losses is: 
 Mixed data for real estate investors The Union Budget 2024 has introduced significant changes in the taxation of property, reflecting the government's efforts to diversify the investment landscape. One of the notable adjustments is the reduction of the Long-Term Capital Gains (LTCG) tax rates. While this reduction may be aiming to attract more investment into property and bring in tax rationalisation compared to equity asset class, removal of the indexation benefit is a dampener.Before the budget, property sales were subject to a 20 percent LTCG tax rate with the indexation benefit. The new tax rate of 12.5 percent comes without the indexation benefit, which is a significant change. The removal of the indexation benefit is disappointing for long-term investors who have relied on it to mitigate the impact of inflation on their gains. Real estate investments, particularly which are long-dated, are expected to have higher effective capital gains tax on account of the new provision.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe immediate impact of these changes is visible in the real estate sector. The stocks of major real estate companies such as DLF Ltd, Godrej Properties, Oberoi Realty, and have dropped by 3-5 percent by the end of the day. While the reduced tax rate aims to attract investment, the elimination of the indexation benefit could pose challenges for long-term holders, potentially leading to higher tax liabilities and affecting investment decisions in the real estate sector
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 06:00 PM IST with headline  Startups and VCs cheer the 'Reform and Rationalize' Budget is: 
 A long-standing ask of Indian startups has been to plug the capital gains differential between listed and unlisted securities. The first budget of the new NDA government has set the tone for the current financial year. Budget 2024 has bestowed upon startups many of the key asks they had of the government. The changes proposed by the honorable finance minister will have a tangible impact on Startup India as well as investors in such assets.Removal of Angel TaxStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe biggest reform announced for startups was the removal of “Angel Tax”. Introduced in 2012 as a means of preventing the circulation and generation of unaccounted funds, Section 56(20(viib) was dubbed “Angel Tax” as it primarily applied to angel and seed round investments by Indian residents. Non-residents were outside its purview.Angel tax sought to tax the difference between the price at which securities were issued by a startup to investors vs the fair market value of the securities. What was meant as an anti-abuse measure slowly became a tax-harvesting section as many startups began to get tax notices for their raises. The taxman’s penchant for comparing the actual performance of the company against the projections and taxing the difference was patently absurd. Even the government provides revised estimates every budget, making this practice of the taxman repressive. Not adhering to projections is a commercial risk, not a taxable event.The extension of Angel Tax to non-resident investments in 2023 saw startup funding plunge 67% YoY to a 6-year low.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 05:46 PM IST with headline  On the way to fiscal consolidation. Will rating upgrade follow? is: 
 Nilesh Shah is the Managing Director of Kotak Mahindra AMC By Nilesh Shah, Managing Director of Kotak Mahindra AMCBudget 2024 signals a strong commitment to India's macroeconomic story. It sets the fiscal deficit target for FY25 at 4.9 percent of GDP, lower than market expectations. In absolute terms, this amounts to Rs 16.15 lakh crore. For FY26, it aims to bring the deficit below 4.5 percent. These targets look credible.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe budget keeps the nominal GDP growth rate at 10.5 percent, same as was projected in February 2024. This is a realistic assumption, despite an 8 percent real growth in the second half of FY24 and RBI's FY25 growth projections at 7.2 percent. Extra revenues from RBI have been prudently used by increasing total expenditure only by ~ Rs 50,000 crore, while keeping capital expenditure constant and the balance being utilised in reducing the fiscal deficit. As the bulk of the increase in expenditure outlay is in the form of asset creation (houses/ roads etc), the budget is non-inflationary and would provide comfort to RBI on the inflation front.We believe the actual fiscal deficit for FY25 could be lower due to higher tax collection on account of tax buoyancy. For FY26, the government needs to curtail its fiscal deficit by about Rs 30,000 crore -40,000 crore to ensure it's below 4.5 percent. This is achievable through better tax compliance or increased non-tax revenue and disinvestments.Also read: FM Sitharaman stands firm on fiscal discipline; RBI dividends help in juggling post-poll necessities
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 05:42 PM IST with headline  Jewellery stocks jump 14% after govt cuts basic custom duty on gold, silver is: 
 Jewellery stocks jump 14% after govt cuts basic custom duty on gold, silver Shares of gold and jewellery retailers jumped 14 per cent on Tuesday after Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the government will reduce the basic customs duty on the yellow metal and silver to 6 per cent.The scrip of Tribhovandas Bhimji Zaveri surged 13.86 per cent to close at Rs 155.30 apiece, Titan Company zoomed 6.63 per cent to Rs 3,468.15, Rajesh Exports rallied 6.32 per cent to finish at Rs 316.35 on the BSE.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPC Jeweller's shares jumped 5 per cent to settle at Rs 74.16 — also its upper circuit limit, Senco Gold climbed 4.75 per cent to Rs 987.55 and Kalyan Jewellers India rose 4.53 per cent to end at Rs 552.85 on the exchange.The 30-share BSE Sensex benchmark slipped 73.04 points or 0.09 per cent to close at 80,429.04.On Tuesday, the government slashed customs duties on a range of products, including gold, silver, and critical minerals, to cut input costs, increase value addition, promote export competitiveness and boost domestic manufacturing.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 05:32 PM IST with headline  Budgeting for the future, while maintaining fiscal prudence is: 
 Nirmala Sitharaman with budget documents as she arrives to present the federal budget in the Parliament in New Delhi, India, Tuesday, July 23, 2024. (AP Photo) The Union Budget announcements revealed significant positives for the Indian financial sector, with relatively larger share of benefits for the marginalized segment of the population. The budget proposals had focused on the growth of the informal sector of the economy by announcing various measures of skill enhancement of youth, credit flow to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and the income enhancement measures for the rural sector.The budgetary proposals shall augment the per capita income and further increase the financial inclusion. The proposals to incentivise domestic higher education though interest subvention and the incentives for addition of jobs in the formal sector could also enhance the growth of formal sectors of the economy. All these announcements are expected to improve the bankability of the population and improve the credit flow through the formal channels in the economy over the medium term.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBoost to MSME SectorGiven the significant employment generated by the MSME sector and with a focus on alleviating the stress in the MSME sector, a slew of announcements was made to increase the credit flow to MSME sector. The key ones included the Government of India (GoI) guaranteed credit support to overdue MSME borrowers, enhanced limits for MUDRA loans and reduction in turnover limit of the goods buyers from MSMEs for the mandatory onboarding on receivable discounting platform. Further, new credit guarantee scheme for MSMEs in the manufacturing sector for machine purchases and adoption of revamped loan underwriting models by public sector banks for lending to MSMEs are other key announcements which shall improve the credit flow while providing resilience the asset quality of the lenders.To match the increased requirements of skilled labor for the industry, the announcements for youth skilling programme in collaboration with industry coupled with various financial incentives to provide formal employment to the youths are also positive, as they improve the formal jobs in the economy.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 06:09 PM IST with headline  Why this infrastructure stock is a big beneficiary of Union Budget 2024 is: 
 Huge allocation to Andhra and Bihar will be beneficial for NCC The government has enhanced infrastructure allocations for the development of the eastern region with a focus on Andhra Pradesh and Bihar. The Central Government will provide funds under the budgetary allocation as well as facilitate financial support through multilateral development agencies. This will mean huge order inflows for the Andhra-based construction player NCC. With project execution capabilities and experience in diverse projects, NCC will be a big gainer of the Union Budget’s focus on the eastern region.The Central Government will support the infrastructure development of Andhra’s proposed capital Amaravati, the dream city of Chandrababu Naidu who is a key ally of the ruling NDA (National Democratic Alliance) regime. The government will provide Rs 15,000 crore in the current financial year for the development of the capital city with additional allocations expected in the future. Apart from the capital city, the government will focus on other infrastructure projects in Andhra Pradesh such as the Polavaram Irrigation project, and water, rail and road projects in other regions of Andhra Pradesh such as Kopparathy and Orvakal industrial nodes. Moreover, the government will provide for the development of the backward regions of Rayalaseema, Prakasam, and North Coastal Andhra.Story continues below AdvertisementIn Bihar, the government will support the development of road connectivity projects worth Rs 26,000 crore as well as a power project worth Rs 21,400 crore. New airports, medical colleges, and sports infrastructure will also be built in Bihar.Moreover, the overall development of infrastructure in other eastern states such as Odisha, Jharkhand, and West Bengal will provide order opportunity for NCC.NCC has a strong understanding of the eastern market (several projects are under execution) and will benefit from these developments
 
The news published on the date July 25, 2024 04:59 PM IST with headline  A push towards ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ in Budget 2024 is: 
 Government has garnered tremendous success from its earlier reforms in the mobile phone manufacturing sector. By Gautam Khattar The Finance Minister tabling the first budget of Modi 3.0 government has reaffirmed its commitment on enhancing self-sufficiency or ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ through key tax initiatives aimed at empowering the Indian local manufacturing.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA slew of rate rationalization measures has been introduced to transform the economy into a global manufacturing powerhouse. Government has garnered tremendous success from its earlier reforms in the mobile phone manufacturing sector, which has resulted into a three-fold increase in domestic production over the last six years.Continuing its endeavour to promote Make in India, Government has now reduced the basic customs duty rate on mobile phone, printed circuit board assembly and mobile chargers to 15 percent. Further, in an effort to bolster the aviation and marine sector, the Government has increased the time limit for export of goods imported for repair under Maintenance, Repair and Operations (MRO) from 6 months to one year.Additionally, the time limit for re-importation of goods for repairs under warranty has been increased from three years to five years. To enhance the domestic value addition in precious metals, basic customs duty on gold and silver has been reduced. On similar lines, basic customs duty on X-ray tubes and flat panel detectors for use in medical X-ray machines have been reduced under phased manufacturing programme to align with domestic capacity addition and fostering innovation in the medical technology sector. On the other hand, 5 percent increase in the basic customs duty rate of printed circuit board assembly is endeavoured to boost local manufacturing of telecom network gear and make imports costlier.
 
The news published on the date July 25, 2024 01:48 PM IST with headline  What government earns and where does it spend? is: 
 Budget on money Tax revenues will contribute 63 percent to the government’s kitty in FY25 as against 60 percent last year, budget documents showed on July 23. The reliance on borrowings and other liabilities has also reduced, according to budget documents released by the government on July 23. Borrowing and other liabilities now finance 27 percent of receipts compared with 33 percent a year back.Moneycontrol takes a look at where the government earns the money from and what it ends up spending on.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove A
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 04:18 PM IST with headline  Budget 2024 changes will boost GIFT City IFSC’s growth trajectory is: 
 Taxation of Retail Schemes and ETFs set up in GIFT City IFSC is likely to attract more fund managers. By Jaiman Patel Continuing from previous budgets, a number of announcements has been made with respect to GIFT City IFSC.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRetail Schemes and ETFs in IFSC have not yet taken-off due to the lack of a specific tax regime. Now, taxation of Retail Schemes and ETFs set up in GIFT City IFSC has been prescribed on same lines as Category IIII IFSC AIFs (Specified Funds). This will attract global fund managers to setup retail schemes and ETFs in IFSC, which would potentially lead to a more vibrant fund management ecosystem in IFSC. Further, in sync with applicable tax rates, clarification has been made that no surcharge will apply on advance tax of IFSC based Specified Funds.Now, interest expense is disallowed beyond 30% of specified earnings where the borrowings are from a non-resident related party. Similar to Indian financial institutions, now IFSC Finance companies are exempted from such thin capitalisation (interest disallowance) related provisions. This will promote set up of Finance Companies in GIFT IFSC especially captive treasury units.Currently, where source of credits/funds is not explained, the same is subject to income-tax. Further, it is prescribed that source of such creditor/lender/shareholder is also required to be explained. This requirement (verifying source of source) was exempted for SEBI registered VCFs. Similar exemption has been granted to VCFs registered with IFSCA.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 04:50 PM IST with headline  Renewed focus on agriculture sector in the Budget to support rural economy is: 
 Promotion of allied sectors such as animal husbandry, dairying, and fisheries can enhance incomes of the farmers The government has stepped up its focus on agriculture and rural India. Allocation for agriculture and allied activities has been increased by 19 percent from the interim budget levels to Rs 1.52 lakh crore. Allocation to rural development is pegged at Rs 2.65 lakh crore, up from Rs 2.38 lakh crore in FY24. Allocation to Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, a credit-linked subsidy scheme to facilitate affordable housing, and Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojna, a road development initiative
 
The news published on the date July 24, 2024 07:20 AM IST with headline  Fiscal prudence continues: Budget 2024 in 10 charts is: 
 Budget 2024 lowers the fiscal deficit target The government on July 23 struck a fine balance by capping the fiscal deficit, even as it expanded the size of its welfare schemes.The fiscal deficit was set at 4.9 percent, despite the Budget size expanding by 1 percent compared with the Interim Budget and 7 percent from the previous year. A rise in tax revenues and better dividends have provided more fiscal space.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHere are 10 charts explaining the fiscal prudence of the Narendra Modi-led government.Govt sticks to its fiscal path...
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 04:01 PM IST with headline  Near-term consumption kicker in Budget 2024 is: 
 What will lead to a consumption boost this financial year? There’s very likely to be a bump up in consumption this year on account of the budget. This impact should show up in the next 12 months, which is distinct from the long-term impact of other budget proposals.The immediate impact on consumption will come through two channels.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFiscal support for jobsAnnexures to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s budget speech showed the union government expects to spend Rs 1.07 trillion as fiscal incentives to enable creation of jobs for new entrants into the market, and also additional jobs.In all 29 million jobs are expected to be created on account of these incentives.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 03:30 PM IST with headline  No major consumption boost in Budget, but Street remains optimistic is: 
 Consumption was a key area of interest for the Street as expectations, after the surprising election results, were that steps to support low-income consumers would be taken. However, the government has not strayed from its method of choice of spurring consumption, giving people the means to earn a better livelihood rather than give them handouts.The allocation in the for sectors such as rural development, health, food and fertilizer subsidy, social welfare have no
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 04:34 PM IST with headline  Ratio of defence capex spending climbs a decadal high in FY25, shows Budget data is: 
 Defence capex gets a push Defence capex spending scaled its highest level of Rs 1.72 lakh crore in FY25, shooting up 9.4 percent from the previous fiscal, according to Budget 2024 data.As a proportion of defence spending, capex was at the highest level of 27.7 percent in FY25, compared with 25.2 percent a year back.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe finance minister, in her first Budget of the third straight Narendra Modi government, kept the defence capex unchanged at Rs 1.72 lakh crore. It had jumped 10 percent in FY24 to Rs 1.57 lakh crore.The government has set an ambitious target to more than treble the defence production to Rs 3 lakh crore by FY29 and raise exports to Rs 50,000 crore.Defence production had declined by a third to around Rs 75,000 crore in the previous fiscal compared with Rs 1.09 lakh crore in the previous year. Defence exports had garnered Rs 21,000 crore in FY24.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 02:40 PM IST with headline  No increase for PM-Kisan in Budget 2024 is: 
 Union budget PM Kisan Contrary to expectations, the Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Modi 3.0's maiden budget on July 23 kept the per farmer payout under PM-KISAN scheme by unchanged at Rs 6,000.Overall outlay under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi programme was kept at Rs 60,000 crore allocation under the interim budget and just over Rs 58,000 crore in FY24.Story continues below AdvertisementOne of the first decisions of the prime minister after assuming office was to release the 17th installment of PM-KISAN worth Rs 20,000 crore.A key demand by industry associations and farmers organisations in the pre-budget meetings with the finance minister was to increase per farmer benefit under the programme.Agriculture growth was tepid at 1.4 percent in FY24 compared with 4.7 percent in the previous year, despite the economy expanding 8.2 percent in FY24.Consumption growth has also been muted at 4 percent.The government has been hoping for a better monsoon this year to provide a boost to rural economy. But economists contend the higher food inflation can play spoilsport.Food inflation galloped to 9.4 percent in June compared with 8.7 percent, according to data released on July 12
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 02:26 PM IST with headline  Rs 1,000-crore VC fund for space economy will give boost to entrepreneurs, pvt players: IN-SPACe chairman Pawan Goenka is: 
 Pawan K Goenka- IN-SPACe Space regulator Indian Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (IN-SPACe) Chairman Pawan K Goenka said that the government's plan of setting up a Rs 1,000-crore venture capital (VC) fund for the space economy would give a major boost to entrepreneurs and other private players in the ecosystem."The announcement of a focused venture fund of 1000 crores will give a major boost to new entrepreneurs and NGEs in the space sector. At IN-SPACe, we look forward to supporting the growth of the space economy and nurturing an enabling ecosystem for NGEs," Goenka said in a statement.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"The fund along with the existing policies for the space sector will fuel technological innovation and create a fertile ground for NGE's to thrive," Goenka added.Earlier in the day, while giving her Budget speech, Sitharaman said, "With our continued emphasis on expanding the space economy by 5 times in the next 10 years, a venture capital fund of Rs 1,000 crore will be set up."Space tech startups such as Pixxel and Agnikul Cosmos have also lauded the move.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 02:04 PM IST with headline  MGNREGA gets Rs 86,000 crore for FY25 is: 
 MGNREGA gets a substantial share Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on July 23 kept the allocation for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme unchanged at Rs 86,000 crore.The allocation stands 4 percent percent lower than the Rs 90,000-crore-plus that the government had spent on the job scheme last year. The MGNREGA allocation had crossed Rs 1 lakh crore during the pandemic year of FY21 and has since declined. In FY21, the spending was 80.8 percent higher than the initial budget allocation.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA Moneycontrol analysis had found that the government has outspent on the MGNREGA by 30 percent on average each year for the last decade.Between FY22 and FY24, the actual expenditure on the scheme exceeded the budgeted outlay by 34.2 percent on average, compared with 16 percent excess spending between FY16 and FY20.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 01:56 PM IST with headline  MGNREGA gets a higher outlay of Rs 86,000 crore in Budget 2024-25 is: 
 Budget 2024 Betting big on Bharat, the first full Budget of the third Narendra Modi government raised the allocation for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme for 2024-25 to match the revised estimate of RTs 86,000 crore for FY24.Initiated by the erstwhile Congress-led UPA government, MGNREGA has continued to be a significant part of India’s social security system. The scheme was allocated Rs 60,000 crore for FY24 and the revised estimate came in at Rs 86,000 crore.Story continues below AdvertisementThe scheme provides a legal guarantee for at least 100 days of wage employment to every rural household whose members do unskilled manual work
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 01:34 PM IST with headline  Budget keeps allocations for PM Kisan, Fasal Bima schemes unchanged despite focus on farm growth is: 
 Union budget PM Kisan Although the Union Budget for 2024-25 focused on the farm sector, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman skipped raising the allocations for the PM Kisan and Fasal Bima schemes.PM Kisan is a flagship scheme of the Narendra Modi government with quarterly cash transfers of Rs 6,000 a year.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe budgetary allocation for PM Kisan had remained unchanged in the Interim too, although estimates suggested that the allocation of Rs 60,000 crore would fall short for 11.8 crore beneficiaries.Another flagship scheme of the Modi government, Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, had an allocation of Rs 14,600 crore in the Interim Budget. It too remained unchanged in the full budget on July 23. Experts have said that the allocation is conservative to meet the demand.The Modi government had promised to double farm incomes at the start of his tenure.The Indian agriculture is defined by small land holdings, unequal growth across crops, heavy monsoon dependence, and low infrastructure investment. The share allocated to the Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare as a proportion of the total budgeted expenditure has gone down over the last four years - from 4.4 percent in 2020-21 to 2.56 percent in 2023-24
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 01:31 PM IST with headline  From credit support to more Mudra loans, Budget 2024 bats for MSMEs is: 
 Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman Budget 2024 turned its attention to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in a big way, as Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a slew of measures ranging from a credit guarantee scheme to higher limit for MUDRA loans for the sector."This Budget provides special attention to MSMEs and manufacturing,particularly labour-intensive manufacturing. We have formulated a package covering financing, regulatory changes and technology support for MSMEs to help them grow and also compete globally," Sitharaman said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHere is what the Budget has to offer to MSMEs :Credit guarantee scheme for MSMEs in manufacturing sectorTo facilitate term loans to MSMEs for purchase of machinery and equipment without collateral or third-party guarantee, the government plans to launch a credit guarantee scheme for MSMEs in the manufacturing sector.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 01:26 PM IST with headline  FM announces increase in monetary limit for filing tax litigation in tribunals, courts is: 
 Sitharaman proposed to increase monetary limits for filing appeals related to direct taxes, excise and service tax in the Tax Tribunals, High Courts and Supreme Court to Rs 60 lakh, Rs 2 crore and Rs 5 crore, respectively. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced an increase in the monetary limit for departments to file tax litigations in tribunal, high courts and the Supreme Court.As a result of the increase, the government cannot pursue tax litigation if the amount in dispute is below the monetary limit, Sitharaman said in her Budget speech on July 23.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdShe said "I propose to increase monetary limits for filing appeals related to direct taxes, excise and service tax in the Tax Tribunals, High Courts and Supreme Court to Rs 60 lakh, Rs 2 crore and Rs 5 crore, respectively." As a consequence of this, if the amount in dispute is less than that mentioned above, the department cannot file an appeal.This is a stark increase from the government's earlier policy with respect to direct tax litigation.Under the 2019 policy for direct tax litigation, appeals before the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) could not be filed if the disputed amount was less than Rs 50 lakh, and for appeals before high courts, it was enhanced to Rs 1 crore, while for special leave petitions (SLPs)/appeals before the Supreme Court, the limit was Rs 2 crore.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 03:22 PM IST with headline  MeitY receives 52% boost in 2024-25 Budget outlay at Rs 21,936 crore is: 
 MeitY received a more than 50 per cent increase in its estimate in this year's budget The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), which is responsible for key schemes in the electronics manufacturing and semiconductor ecosystem, has received a 52 percent hike in its estimate for 2024-25, with the Union Budget allocating Rs 21,936.90 crore for this.The revised estimate for MeitY in 2023-24 stood at Rs 14,421.25 crore. The increase in allocation is in line with the gradual increase in MeitY's budget over the years.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe majority of the increased allocation for MeitY is reflected in the expanded production-linked incentive (PLI) schemes for both semiconductors and large-scale electronics manufacturing and IT hardware.The estimate for the 'modified scheme for setting up of compound semiconductors/silicon photonics/sensors fab/discrete semiconductors fab and semiconductor assembly, testing, marking and packaging (ATMP)/outsourced semiconductor assembly and test (OSAT)facilities in India' was increased from Rs 1,428.84 crore in the revised estimate for 2023 - 2024, to Rs 4,203 crore in the Union Budget for 2024-25.The central government increased the estimate for the 'Modified Scheme for Setting up of Semiconductor Fabs in India' from Rs 12.51 crore in revised estimate for 2023-24 to Rs 1,500 crore this year.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 02:52 PM IST with headline  Customs duty relief for mobile phone, chargers: Check out other measures is: 
 Union Budget 2024 Finance Minister has announced customs duty relief on mobile phone, mobile chargers, gold and silver, as well as shrimp feed in the Union Budget on July 23.Finance Minister mentioned that the last six years have seen a three-fold increase in production of mobile phones in India, and almost a 100-fold rise in exports of mobile handsets.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWith the aim to simply taxation for the common public, FM Sitharaman announced the following proposals on customs duty:Medicine & medical equipment: Three more medicines exempt from customs duty.Precious Metals: Customs duty on platinum reduced to 6.4% and on gold and silver down to 6%.Solar: There will be no extension of customs duty on solar energy-related parts.Shrimp Export: The Basic Customs Duty (BCD) on shrimp feed will be cut to 5%.Similar reduction and exemption in Customs Duty for leather raw materials were announced to enhance make exports of leather and textile more competitive.Story continues below AdvertisementRare Earth Minerals: Lithium, copper, and cobalt will be exempted from customs duty, along with 25 critical minerals.Mobile Phone: Customs duty on mobile phones and chargers will be reduced to 15%. There has also been a reduction in customs duty on mobile phone components (PCBA) and chargers.Metals: Basic Customs Duty on steel, copper on some products reduced.The Customs Duty structure will be put to comprehensive review over next six months to rationalise it and remove duty inversion, FM said in the Budget speech
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 12:10 PM IST with headline  Nirmala Sitharaman announces Rs 1,000-crore VC fund in a boost for space economy is: 
 Indian Space Research Organisation's Chandrayaan 3 lander Vikram on the lunar surface Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on July 23 announced that the government will set up a venture capital fund of Rs 1,000-crore for the space sector."With our continued emphasis on expanding the space economy by 5 times in the next 10 years, a venture capital fund of Rs 1,000 crore will be set up," Sitharaman said while presenting the Budget for the financial year 2024-25.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThis announcement gains significance in the light of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO's) recent achievements, including successfully landing Chandrayaan-3 near the Moon's South Pole, and space tech startup Agnikul Cosmos' successful launching of its maiden rocket.Other space tech startups such as Pixxel, Digantara and Piersight Space have also attracted VC investments, signalling a growing demand for homegrown space tech solutions.Industry body Indian Space Association (IsPA) which represents over 40 space tech startups, apart from bigger players such as Airtel, One Web and so on lauded the move.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 12:02 PM IST with headline  Budget rolls out farm priorities - natural farming, push for digital land records is: 
 Our priority is to enhance productivity and resilience in agriculture, FM said during the Budget speech Over the next two years, one crore farmers will be ushered into natural farming, Finance Minister Sitharaman said on July 23, as part of Centre's priority to enhance agriculture."We plan to release 109 varieties of 32 crops and support natural farmers with certification and branding", FM Sitharaman said while presenting the first Budget under Modi 3.0 government, which was her seventh.Story continues below AdvertisementTo ensure self-sufficiency in pulses and oilseeds, the government will focus on storage and marketing eco-system, FM added.Government will also establish 10,000 need-based bio resource centres.FM said the plan is also to develop a digital public infrastructure for agriculture in partnership with States, which will integrate 6 crore farmers and their land into a digital registry, with an allocation of Rs 1.52 lakh crore for agriculture and allied sectors.This is being update
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 06:35 PM IST with headline  Nirmala Sitharaman announces implementation of DPI for agriculture over next 3 years in Budget 2024 is: 
 Experts said that lending to the agriculture sector always needs a cautious approach as it has higher chances of turning non-performing assets (NPAs). Government has set out an ambitious plan to facilitate implementation of Digital Public Infrastructure (DPI) in agriculture over 3 years, bringing over 6 crore farmers under the formal land registry system, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said while presenting the Union Budget 2024 on July 23."Buoyed by the success of the pilot project, our government, in partnership with the states, will facilitate the implementation of the DPI in agriculture for coverage of farmers and their lands in 3 years," Sitharaman said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAs part of the project--namely Agri Stack--the government also plans to conduct digital crop survey for Kharif in 400 districts this year."The details of 6 crore farmers and their lands will be brought into the farmer and land registries. Further, the issuance of Jan Samarth based Kisan Credit Cards will be enabled in 5 states," the finance minister said.The government had announced for development of DPI for agriculture as an open source, open standard and inter-operable public good for better targeting of reforms and subsidies for farmers.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 11:51 AM IST with headline  Nirmala Sitharaman announces e-commerce export hubs in Budget 2024 is: 
 A report by economic think tank GTRI said that India's e-commerce exports have the potential to reach $350 billion by 2030 E-commerce export hubs will be set up in the country under a seamless regulatory and logistics framework, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced in her Budget speech on July 23.The commerce ministry's arm, Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT), has already been working with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and concerned ministries, including the finance ministry, on several steps to promote exports through e-commerce medium as huge export opportunities are there in the sector.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAccording to industry experts, in such hubs, export clearances can be facilitated. Besides, it can also have warehousing facilities, customs clearance, returns processing, labelling, testing and repackaging."It will be a kind of bonded zone which will facilitate exports and imports of e-commerce cargo and to a large extent address the problem of re-imports because in e-commerce, about 25 per cent of goods are re-imported. These hubs are also kind of export-oriented units and the private sector will have to come forward for developing these hubs," Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO) Director General Ajay Sahai told PTI earlier.Recently, DGFT Santosh Kumar Sarangi said that there is a huge potential to increase exports through e-commerce medium. Last year, the cross-border e-commerce trade was about $800 billion and is estimated to reach $2 trillion by 2030.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 11:44 AM IST with headline  Budget 2024:Gender Budget reaches highest level since FY11 is: 
 Gender budget gets a boost Government spending on women centric schemes reached its highest level in over a decade in FY25, as the finance minister spent over Rs 3 lakh crore on gender budget on July 23.This is also the first time the scheme has crossed an outlay of Rs 3 lakh crore.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSpending on the scheme rose from Rs 2.6 lakh crore spent on the programme in the previous year.The government had spent 5.4 percent of total expenditure on gender budget in FY24 and 5.2 percent in the previous year. Average spending on the scheme has been around 5 percent over the last decade.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 11:23 AM IST with headline  Key government schemes to watch out for in Budget 2024 is: 
 Spurring the economy As Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman rises to table the first Union Budget of the third Narendra Modi government, she will have a big task of reviving consumption and pushing agriculture growth.Agricultural output growth was a tepid 1.4 percent in FY24 compared with 4.7 percent a year back, even as the economy roared at 8.2 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdConsumption growth also lagged at 4 percent in FY24, with experts indicating that consumption by rural and lower-income groups has lagged. Moneycontrol takes a look at five key schemes to watch out for as the finance minister presents her seventh Union Budget on July 23.Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGA)A scheme to provide boost to rural consumption and supplement income, the MGNREGA spends have witnessed a hike after the pandemic. The importance of the government’s flagship job scheme launched in 2006 can be gauged by the fact that the government has been outspending on the scheme each year over the last decade compared with the initially budgeted amount. In FY24, it spent Rs 86,000 crore on Budget.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 08:51 AM IST with headline  Budget could see lower fiscal deficit target, helped by RBI's dividend bonanza, say experts is: 
 A Bloomberg survey of economist has projected that Centre will be able to bring down the fiscal deficit to 5% this year. The surplus dividend from RBI for FY24 is likely to be used to bring down the fiscal deficit, however if the pace of fiscal consolidation is too aggressive, it risks slowing the economy down, Axis Bank's Head of Global Research Neelkanth Mishra said in a conversation with CNBC-TV18 ahead of the Union Budget announcement.The Axis ViewStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMishra added that it is likely that RBI's dividend for FY26 could also be well above the Rs 1.5 lakh crore figure, but it can not be assumed to be steady state revenue. The priorities this budget are likely to be the same, and the focus will be expenditure that are fiscal multipliers like infra and railways, Neelkanth Mishra said.Track the latest on Union Budget right here on Moneycontrol.The Budget speech is likely to give a sign of government's broad intentions from the economy, as was highlighted in the President's address to the Parliament, Mishra said.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 07:46 AM IST with headline  Payments companies expect higher UPI subsidies in Budget is: 
 PhonePe, Google Pay cede online payment share to new entrants As Unified Payments Interface (UPI)-based transaction continues to be grow in leaps and bounds, payment firms are pinning strong hope for a continued, rather higher subsidy to continue facilitating the free transactions.In order to push adoption of digital payments, the government had mandated to keep the UPI transactions free for users, and in return compensate the payment firms for the cost they bear to facilitate the same.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThese subsidies come via the Payments Infrastructure Development Fund (PIDF) that finds mention in the Budget every year along with certain separate allocation for promoting RuPay and UPI transaction.In Interim Union Budget 2024, the government had approved the proposal for the continuation of the incentive scheme with a financial outlay of Rs 3,500 crores for both small-value UPI transactions and for Rupay-BHIM transactions.However, as the popularity of UPI picks up pace with each passing day with jump in both volume and value, the stakeholders, including payment aggregators, UPI apps and banks, are hoping for an enhanced reimbursement.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 06:29 AM IST with headline  India to ease borrowing, investment rules for state firms is: 
 India to ease borrowing, investment rules for state firms India plans to remove some restrictions on its state-owned companies, including allowing them to borrow and invest without seeking the permission of the government, according to people with knowledge of the matter.Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants to make it easier for these firms to diversify into new markets and boost manufacturing, thereby helping him create jobs and lower imports, the people said, asking not to be identified before a formal announcement. The proposal may be announced as early as Tuesday, when India presents its annual budget.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA spokesperson for the Finance Ministry didn’t respond to a request seeking comment.The expected overhaul will add to corporate governance reforms enacted by Modi’s administration, which have led to increased dividend payouts by state-run firms and helped deliver six straight quarters of better-than-estimated earnings. After attempts to sell stakes in these companies yielded little success, the government has sought to focus inward and weed out practices that have hindered competitiveness.Some of the changes proposed include:
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 10:04 PM IST with headline  Interview: Identify sectors that can boost Indian exports with Chinese FDI, says CEA Nageswaran is: 
 Chief Economic Adviser V Anantha Nageswaran India needs to identify sectors wherein foreign direct investment (FDI) from China could work as a better strategy to boost exports, Chief Economic Adviser V Anantha Nageswaran said in an interview to Moneycontrol.“I am not saying prefer one over another. What I am saying is if there are areas where FDI can lead to better outcome than higher imports, we are anyway importing from China, and we have a large trade deficit with them, so we need to understand which strategy could work better for which sectors,” Nageswaran said on July 22.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn whether India would require to ease FDI norms in a bid to implement this idea, Nageswaran said that is the government’s call.In order to curb opportunistic takeovers or acquisitions of Indian companies, the Centre amended the FDI policy, specifically Press Note 3, April 2020.Under the new rule, an entity of a country, sharing land border with India or where the beneficial owner of an investment in India is situated in or is a citizen of any such country, can invest only under the government route.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 11:05 PM IST with headline  FM Sitharaman to present full Budget on Tuesday as Modi 3.0 aims to strike the right balance is: 
 Since coming back to power, Modi 3.0 has announced measures revolving around rural focus and infrastructure including an additional 3 crore houses under PM Awas Yojana, PM Kisan installment, etc. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will present the Union Budget for 2024-25 on July 23 amid a realistic GDP growth estimate of 6.5-7 percent laid out by the Economic Survey.Sitharaman will present the Union Budget at 11 am in the Parliament. This will be her 7th Union Budget.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Budget is likely to keep its focus on the revival of the rural economy, agriculture, MSMEs, and boosting consumption.The Economic Survey has outlined expanding MSMEs as one of the key areas for growth in Amrit Kaal. Prioritising the growth and expansion of India’s MSMEs (Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises) is highlighted as a strategic priority, recognising their significant role in the economy.The Budget is expected to provide support to the productive sectors of the economy, by finding a fine balance between supporting investment and consumption.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 07:49 PM IST with headline  Wall St picks up after sell-off as investors weigh Biden exit effect; Nasdaq rises 1% is: 
 Wall St opens higher as investors assess US election after Biden exit Wall Street stocks opened higher early Monday as tech shares bounced back after a recent pullback, as investors looked ahead to major earnings and economic data due this week.The US presidential race had produced a surprise over the weekend with Joe Biden bowing out of the race and throwing support to Vice President Kamala Harris.Story continues below Advertisement"We had, of course, enormous political news. But I don't know that that's really what's driving things right now," said Steve Sosnick of Interactive Brokers. "I think this is some bargain hunting after a rough week."About 15 minutes into trading, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 0.2 percent at 40,357.10.The broad-based S&P 500 gained 1.0 percent to 5,557.17, while the tech-rich Nasdaq Composite Index gained 1.5 percent to 17,985.79.Among individual companies Delta Air Lines slumped 3.6 percent as it continued to be plagued by a major IT outage connected to a flawed update to an antivirus program from American cybersecurity group CrowdStrike. Delta canceled more than 660 flights on Monday, according to tracker FlightAware.Rivals American Airlines and United Airlines fell just over one percent, while CrowdStrike plummeted nearly 10 percent.This week's earnings calendar includes reports from Google parent Alphabet, General Motors and Coca-Cola, while the economic releases include personal consumption pricing data
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 07:05 PM IST with headline  Gold rises Rs 100 to Rs 75,650 per 10 grams amid firm global cues is: 
 Gold rises Rs 100 to Rs 75,650 per 10 grams amid firm global cues Gold prices rose by Rs 100 to Rs 75,650 per 10 grams in the national capital on Monday on increased buying by jewellers amid a firm global trend.However, silver prices plunged by Rs 600 to Rs 91,000 per kg. In the previous session, it had settled at Rs 91,600 per kg, as per the All India Sarafa Association.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn Saturday, the precious metal rates had closed at Rs 75,550 per 10 grams.Meanwhile, gold of 99.5 per cent purity also rose by Rs 100 to Rs 75,300 per 10 grams. It had ended at Rs 75,200 per 10 grams in the previous session.Traders attributed the rise in gold prices to fresh demand by local jewellers and a firm trend in the international markets.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 06:53 PM IST with headline  Statistics quality an underlying theme of the survey is: 
 Relooking data from stats ministry Amidst a focus on sustaining economic growth, controlling inflation and boosting exports, the Economic Survey also has an undercurrent on emphasising data quality and improving the country’s statistical system.“The government is taking many steps aimed at strengthening administrative and survey statistics, building capacities and improving data quality and timeliness,” the survey noted.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe survey highlighted the need to update the base year of important indicators like the gross domestic product, Consumer Price Index and the Index of Industrial Production, which are used to estimate economic growth, inflation and production, but also argued for integration of other databases to help in decision-making.For instance, in the case of essential commodities, the survey stressed the need to link databases in such a way that the government could track any build-up in prices.On the goods and services tax front, the survey pointed out that granular data could help the government get a handle on the health of businesses.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 06:48 PM IST with headline  Understanding India from the Economic Survey 2023-24 is: 
 The Chief Economic Advisor, V Anantha Nageswaran, in his second Economic Survey 2023-24 presentation, steered clear of presenting overly optimistic forecasts for the Indian economy India’s economy has shown resilience amid a global slowdown, with the Economic Survey projecting a conservative growth outlook of 6.5-7 percent for FY25. While the survey calls upon the private sector to create jobs and boost investments, it also emphasises the need for the government to “let go” or more deregulation.The Chief Economic Advisor, V Anantha Nageswaran, in his second Economic Survey 2023-24 presentation, steered clear of presenting overly optimistic forecasts for the Indian economy. He used the survey as an opportunity to highlight the wins for India, including increasing participation of women in the workforce, reduced out-of-pocket expenses in healthcare, increased enrolment in schools, etc., even as he emphasised the need for building climate resilience, for the private sector to step up investment and to work to minimise the presence of the government.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHere are some highlights from the survey on India’s macro economy, capital expenditure, state finances, jobs, welfare, education and health.Macro economy-Steady growthIndia has remained on course to meet fiscal consolidation goals despite the global trend of widening fiscal deficit. India’s favourable fiscal performance in 2023 emerged as the cornerstone of India’s macroeconomic stability. The fiscal deficit of the Union Government is down from 6.4 percent of GDP in FY23 to 5.6 percent of GDP in FY24. Increased robustness in tax revenues plus higher than budgeted non-tax revenues in the form of dividends from RBI has buffeted revenue receipts. Sustained improvements in India’s fiscal metrics are beginning to have an impact on India’s credit ratings. For the first time in 13 years, S&P Global upgraded India’s credit rating outlook from stable to positive in May 2024.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 06:14 PM IST with headline  Agricultural sector likely to perform better in FY25: CEA is: 
 Provisional estimates for 2023-24 peg the agricultural growth rate at 1.4 per cent. The agricultural sector is expected to perform better after stagnant growth of 1.4 percent in Fy24 as estimated in the provisional estimates. This is likely despite the monsoon not performing as predicted by the (India Meteorological Department), the chief economic advisor V Anantha Nageswaran said on July 22.''Agriculture sector is expected to perform better in the coming year. Monsoon not performing as predicted by the IMD before the season began,'' Nageswaran said at the press conference after the Economic Survey was tabled in the Parliament by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Indian Meteorological Department had forecast that India is set to receive above-normal monsoon rains this year. The monsoon is, however, not progressing as the IMD predicted before the monsoon season began. The rainfall needs to be spatially distributed, else the agricultural yield is impacted, the CEA said.The farm sector has clocked an average annual growth rate of 4.18 per cent over the last five years, with provisional estimates for 2023-24 pegging the agri growth rate at 1.4 per cent.ALSO READ: For more details go to Economic Survey blog
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 06:03 PM IST with headline  No need to raise capital gains tax for now is: 
 A higher capital gains tax is a bigger worry in the long run than any political instability. The markets appear to be on pause mode for the last trading sessions after closing at record highs last Thursday (July 18), with the Nifty ending at 24,801 on that day. On Monday, the Nifty closed 21.60 points down at 24,509.30, though market width was positive.The markets appear to be waiting for Tuesday’s budget in the wake of persistent rumours that capital gains tax rates may be hiked. Long term capital gains (LTCG) tax in India is 10% and the short-term rate (STCG) 15%.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdNumerous market participants have said that a higher capital gains tax is a bigger worry in the long run than any political instability caused by the BJP’s tally in Parliament falling below the 270 mark.Intriguingly the Economic Survey released on Monday refers approvingly to a June 2024 IMF staff paper which recommends “well-designed excess corporate profit taxes and high personal income taxes on capital through better enforcement of automatic information exchange between countries and enhanced taxation of capital gain.”To be clear the IMF paper quoted in the survey is with reference to policy measures to mitigate inequality caused by possible large-scale displacement of labour resulting widespread adoption of AI. There is no direct correlation between its conclusions appearing in the Survey, and the possibility of higher capital gains tax in Tuesday’s budget which appear to be the stuff of Indian investors’ nightmare.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 07:30 PM IST with headline  Economic Survey in 10 charts: Stability, inclusivity central to 2047 Viksit Bharat vision is: 
 Economic Survey in 10 charts The Economic Survey 2023-24 took a more conservative stance in its projections than many international agencies, pinning GDP growth at 6.5-7 percent for FY25. It emphasised the need for more structural reforms to accelerate sustained growth to more than 7 percent. The survey suggested measures to contain inflation, highlighting that it is likely to be benign in the short run. Moneycontrol decodes the survey in 10 charts and excerpts from the survey:India’s economy, according to the survey, carried forward the momentum in FY24 despite several external challenges. It said growth could exceed 7 percent on a sustained basis if structural reforms continue.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAchieving long-term price stability requires a clear, forward-looking vision, the survey said. It's important to assess progress in developing modern storage and processing facilities for fruits and vegetables to check price volatility, it added.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 05:48 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Metal companies look East for relief is: 
 market Dear Reader,China took the markets by surprise, after it announced a series of measures aimed at providing a monetary stimulus. The one-year loan prime rate (LPR) was cut by 10 basis points to 3.35 percent and the 5-year LPR by 10 basis points to 3.85 percent. The People’s Bank of China also said it will cut the 7-day reverse repo rate by 10 basis points to 1.7 percent and improve the mechanism of open market operations, according to a Reuters report.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe report also mentioned that a report from the official China news agency Xinhua quoted sources close to the PBOC as saying “the cut showed its determination to bolster the recovery and it was in response to the plenum’s aims to achieve this year’s growth target”. We had written about the China’s Third Plenum, its importance and what it could seek to achieve. While the Plenum has concluded, the 60-point document released did not point to any major policy shift, reaffirmed policy goals but did not lay down implementation steps, according to this Reuters report seen on Moneycontrol.That’s why the monetary measures come as a surprise as they did not wait for the US Fed to start its easing cycle to follow suit. It opens up the possibility that when the Fed does start its cycle, China may take more measures then. If these measures are followed up with some fiscal measures as well, then the hope is that China’s economy climbs to a more robust level of growth.India’s metals industry will be keen awaiting a revival in China’s domestic economy. JSW Steel’s Q1 results reflect the scars of China’s surplus position in steel as its companies continue to churn out excess output despite the state of the economy. It has been exporting steel with the neighbouring countries being the main target. My colleague Lekha Badlani analysed JSW Steel’s performance in the June quarter, which showed that per tonne realisation, on a consolidated basis, fell by 5.1 percent YoY.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 06:04 PM IST with headline  Too much Instagram and fries could choke India's economic growth, says Economic Survey is: 
 This mix of unhealthy habits can undermine public health and productivity and diminish India’s economic potential, the Survey warned. India’s economic future is at risk from a public health crisis fuelled by unhealthy lifestyles, including sedentary habits, excessive screen time, and poor diets, the Economic Survey 2023-24 said.This mix of unhealthy habits can undermine public health and productivity and diminish India’s economic potential, the Survey warned. It criticized the private sector’s role in contributing to these.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHighlighting the health and commercial benefits of traditional Indian lifestyles, the survey advocated that businesses adopt and promote these practices globally to boost their market leadership and profitability.Economic Survey: CEA flags geopolitics, rise of AI as key challenges for Viksit Bharat and urges India Inc to step upIndia is home to one of the youngest populations in the world, having a median age of 28 years, according to the Survey. “India can harness its demographic dividend by nurturing a workforce that is equipped with employable skills and prepared for the needs of the industry,” the Survey read.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 05:30 PM IST with headline  FY25 GDP growth estimate at 6.5-7% is prudent, not pessimistic: CEA is: 
 Chief Economic Advisor V Anantha Nageswaran Despite the RBI estimating India’s GDP growth at 7.2 percent GDP growth in FY25 and other international agencies also revising their projection upwards, the Economic Survey has projected a conservative estimate of 6.5-7 percent in the current fiscal. With the global environment posing several challenges and monsoon not progressing the way predicted, the Chief Economic Advisor (CEA) V Anantha Nageswaran said that the Economic Survey was mindful of these risks and thus projects a ''doable'' growth estimate.''We are not pessimistic, we are optimistic about growth. But we are mindful of challenges, about the way the monsoon has progressed. Given that we feel 7 percent is doable, but yet we want to be not necessarily cautious but prudent'' Nageswaran said at a press conference after the tabling of the Economic Survey in the Parliament by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Indian Meteorological Department had forecast that India is set to receive above-normal monsoon rains this year. The monsoon is, however, not progressing as the IMD predicted before the monsoon season began, the CEA said.''We were more confident of 7 percent GDP growth when we wrote the interim economic survey in January. Since then the global environment has become even more polarised. We would rather be pleasantly surprised than be forced to face disappointment which is why we are projecting a GDP growth rate of 6.5-7 percent,'' he added.The growth estimated by the Survey, released a day before Sitharaman presents the Budget for the ongoing financial year, is in line with the International Monetary Fund’s estimate of 7 percent.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 05:16 PM IST with headline  Why a populist Budget won’t be bad, after all is: 
 Union Budget By Divam Sharma, Founder and Fund Manager at Green PortfolioPopulist budgets don’t necessarily need to be bad, nor do they need to please everyone. The budget back in February was nothing close to being populist, but now we might see some populist measures as the government tries to gain public confidence and support.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdLet’s look at things from a couple of different perspectives. First off, consumption. A populist budget can really help improve consumption spending, particularly in rural areas. We have seen FMCG staying muted during most of FY24. So, a populist budget can be beneficial as it would help in the revival of demand from the rural side in FMCG which has been laggard due to erratic rainfalls impacting the farming industry hence lower consumption from that side. We have already started seeing some green shots here and there in rural consumption, and a good budget would further aid in that growth.Also read: Economic Survey pegs FY25 GDP growth at 6.5-7%It’s all about consumption, we can talk about different sectors but it comes down to consumption for all. The country has been trying to become an electronic hub, and consumption growth can aid in domestic demand for electronics as well. For the auto industry, a subsidy in EVs (electric vehicles) for 2-wheelers and 3-wheelers would push the demand aid in government EV targets and also please consumers.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 04:52 PM IST with headline  Consumer price index base to be revised to 2024; producer price index to be expedited is: 
 Inflation base changed to 2024 India’s consumer inflation basket will have 2024 as base year, the Economic Survey 2023-24 said on July 22, noting that the government will also work towards expediting the availability of producer price index.“An extensive exercise for base revision of important economic statistics is being taken up at MoSPI (ministry of statistics and programme implementation). The exercise to change the base year of CPI from 2012 to 2024 has been initiated,” the survey said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMoneycontrol had earlier reported that the government was looking to revise consumer price index base to 2024. The ministry already has initiated market survey to identify shops across markets.Along with the base year, the commodities used in calculation of the consumer price index are also expected to undergo revision.The current series considers data from 2011-12, where many commodities like tape recorders, VCRs and cassettes have become obsolete.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 04:40 PM IST with headline  Uncertainty in job sector, impact on environment: Five important points that Economic Survey makes on AI is: 
 The Indian government in March approved a Rs 10,732 crore IndiaAI mission in a bid to develop the country's AI infrastructure capabilities and so on The Economic Survey has covered a range of topics that affect the Indian economy, and a large portion of it has been devoted to artificial intelligence and its impact on the country especially in sectors such as job creation, environment and so on.In the 476-page formulated report by chief economic advisor V Anantha Nageswaran, which was tabled in the Parliament on July 22, it was pointed out that AI has cast a "pall of uncertainty" in the job sector across all skill levels -- low, semi and high.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Its (Artificial Intelligence's) productivity-enhancing potential is beyond doubt, but the social impact of emerging technologies such as Artificial Intelligence (AI) via labour market disruptions and labour displacement is barely understood. It also has the potential to skew the capital and labour shares of income in favour of the former," the survey said.The report calls on the Centre, state governments and private sector to overcome these challenges in a bid to maintain high growth rates for the country."These will create barriers and hurdles to stained high growth rates for India in the coming years and decades. Overcoming these requires a grand alliance of Union and State government and private sector," the report said.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 05:15 PM IST with headline  Economic Survey projects conservative growth forecast for FY25, but leaves jobs and private investment puzzle unanswered is: 
 India is among a handful of economies that have fully recovered from it in terms of economic output. India’s economic growth as measured by GDP in 2023-24 beat expectations of not just private forecasters but also last year’s Economic Survey by a significant margin. Therefore, a “conservative” GDP estimate in 2024-25 of 6.5-7 percent by the latest Economic Survey may well be surpassed again.Yet, a search for answers in the Economic Survey on two other interrelated aspects, jobs and private sector investment, don’t provide satisfactory explanations on why their performance is at odds with India’s GDP growth. These answers matter because their performance will influence the GDP trajectory over a five-year period.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPandemic damage is neutralisedThe global economic damage caused by the outbreak of Covid-19 was significant. Today, India is among a handful of economies that have fully recovered from it in terms of economic output.The Survey pointed out that in 2023-24, India’s GDP reached the level projected by the pre-pandemic trajectory. Simply put, the speed of the GDP expansion has ensured that there is no permanent loss in output and demand.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 04:30 PM IST with headline  Hong Kong to launch Asia's first inverse bitcoin ETF is: 
 Hong Kong to launch Asia's first inverse bitcoin ETF - - - Volume: - Open Trading A/c - 0 (0%) Todays L/H 0 0 Asia's first inverse bitcoin exchange-traded fund that allows investors to bet on a fall in the cryptocurrency, is set to debut in Hong Kong on Tuesday.Hong Kong's CSOP Asset Management said it will launch the CSOP Bitcoin Futures Daily (-1x) Inverse Product on the city's stock exchange on Tuesday morning.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe ETF is expected to take advantage of rising demand to profit from the volatile trading of cryptocurrencies. After the first batch of spot crypto ETFs went public in Hong Kong in April, bitcoin had a bumpy second quarter, losing more than 12%."The first futures-based inverse bitcoin product listed in Hong Kong creates opportunities for investors to gain from downside movements in bitcoin," said Ding Chen, CEO of CSOP Asset Management in a statement.Bitcoin has been the most erratic among major global assets in the last ten years, with volatility as high as 38.3% in 2023, surpassing crude oil and the Nasdaq 100, the company added.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 04:07 PM IST with headline  Rupee rises 3 paise to close at 83.67 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee rises 3 paise to close at 83.67 against US dollar The rupee consolidated in a narrow range to settle 3 paise higher at 83.67 (provisional) against the American currency on Monday, as crude oil prices and the US dollar retreated from their elevated levels.Forex traders said the Indian rupee recovered from all-time low levels and traded in a narrow range as mixed-to-weak domestic markets put downside pressure on the rupee. However, weak tone in the US dollar and a decline in crude oil prices cushioned the downside.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 83.66, and touched an intraday high of 83.65 and a low of 83.68 against the dollar during the trading session.It finally settled at 83.67 (provisional) against the American currency, registering a gain of 3 paise from its previous close.On Friday, the rupee depreciated 7 paise to settle at its all-time low of 83.70 against the US dollar.
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 09:10 AM IST with headline  Tackling Climate Change: The real issue lies in finding the money is: 
 Representative image HighlightsEconomic Survey 2023-24 lists challenges to India’s climate fightThe intermittent nature of RE is a big challengeBattery storage technologies and access to critical minerals are essentialRecycling of RE waste is also an area of concernThe biggest issue is the availability of international financeThere is also a need to develop a carbon marke
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 03:33 PM IST with headline  Capital Gains Tax: Why fix something that ain’t broke is: 
 Budget 2024 By Tushar Pradhan, Director at Hxgon Partners LLPThe first full budget of the third term of the BJP government and the first of the coalition government is the subject of much debate already. There are various wishlists that industry bodies, corporates and individuals have prepared and are keenly looking at the fine print at the incoming budget. While it is a full budget, as opposed to an interim budget going into the elections in February, it will also be pertinent to note that in view of only a part of the year now being covered the government may decide to keep the policy oriented and major announcements for next February.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHaving said that, certain headlines point to some very sensitive issues especially connected to the capital markets, that have grabbed attention lately. While much of the speculation should rightfully border around the overall growth orientation, revenue maximisation and social equity addressed in the budget as main thrusts, the more controversial issue is the one relating to capital gains tax. There is speculation that there may be a change in the rate, or the holding period to determine short or long term for investments in equity and equity related instruments. Such a change if enacted may have an outsized impact on the market as sentiment in the short term is more impactful than the actual outcome.Also read: Economic Survey pegs FY25 GDP growth at 6.5-7%It will be interesting to note the reason why differential tax rates exists between income tax rates and capital gains tax in the first place. In a country that was starved of investment from its own public, the challenge was for providing capital for its growing industrial infrastructure needs by way of incentivising longer term investments by providing a tax arbitrage. If investors are willing to put their savings to work for a longer term, they should be adequately compensated for such allocation that not only satisfies the need for capital formation without additional outlay by the government or its agencies but also provides for a healthy return for deferring the outcome to investors. The capital gains tax globally also follows a similar pattern. For example, in the US, the long-term capital gains tax rates for the 2023 and 2024 tax years are 0%, 15%, or 20% of the profit, depending on the income of the filer. Please note, lower income filers get the benefit of zero capital gains tax there.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 03:24 PM IST with headline  Energy needs to grow 2.5 times but green power faces hurdles: Economic Survey 2023-24 is: 
 India aims to shift from conventional to non-fossil fuel energy sources, aiming for 50% of its power capacity from non-fossil fuels by 2030. India’s energy needs are expected to grow 2-2.5 times by 2047, given the growing economy, but the renewable energy sector still faces challenges, says the Economic Survey 2023-24 tabled by the government on July 22.India’s energy mix in 2022-23 was primarily dominated by fossil-fuel, accounting for almost 84 percent, including coal, oil, and natural gas combined. But the composition in the electricity sector has significantly changed with the government’s sustained push for renewable energy. The share of non-fossil power capacity stood at 45.4 percent as of May 2024 from around 32 percent in April 2014.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“Considering that resources are limited, the pace of energy transition would need to factor in alternative demands on the resources for improving resilience to climate change and for sustained social and economic development. Achieving Net Zero by 2070 requires an orderly transition to a diversified mix of energy sources with a significant share of non-fossils and enhancement in energy production and usage efficiency,” says the document.“Phasing renewable energy into the country's energy mix is paramount in India’s drive towards cleaner energy sources,” it says.Renewable push
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 03:19 PM IST with headline  India needs to face up to its junk food crisis is: 
 There is data suggesting junk food in India is worse than in many other countries. India is not the world’s healthiest country. Sadly, regulators seem determined to make the problem worse with each passing year.Urban Indians, especially wealthier ones, have a relatively sedentary lifestyle, and our diet is heavy in carbohydrates and fats. This may not show up easily in the numbers, given the size of the country’s population.Analysis in the Lancet recently found that about 23% of Indians were technically overweight, defined as a body mass index over 25. Many parts of the world, such as West Asia and Eastern Europe, do much worse.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBut, when you break the data down, worrying trends emerge. Women over 30, for instance, have startlingly high rates of abdominal obesity in India — with a prevalence of over 55% for women older than 40. That is a more dangerous indicator of predisposition to metabolic disease than regular BMI.Moreover, genetics seem to make Indians particularly vulnerable to such ailments. One scientist at the generic pharma major Lupin Ltd has pointed out that Indians tend to have greater insulin resistance and develop Type II diabetes at a younger age than the average. The Lancet suggests that over 100 million Indians have diabetes, and 136 million are pre-diabetic. That’s a crisis — one that’s set to grow worse as India becomes richer and more urban.The problem is usually blamed on a change in the diets of middle-class Indians, from fresh to processed foods. The assumption is that packaged products are unhealthier. It’s right there in the name: “junk food.”
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 03:10 PM IST with headline  India needs to upgrade IIP, other industry statistics to aid policy making is: 
 India needs to upgrade its industry statistics like IIP to aid policy making: Economic Survey 2023-24 India needs to upgrade its statics on industrial production and other indicators such as credit disbursal to industries to support better policy- making, the Economic Survey 2023-24 tabled in Parliament on July 22 said.According to the survey, policy making will be aided through an updated index of industrial production (IIP), incorporating the vast changes that have occurred in India’s manufacturing landscape.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“State level variants of such indices will help understanding the emerging geographical patterns,” the survey, presented a day ahead of , said.In addition to IIP, policy-makers will also be helped if they have access to regular indicators of the dynamics of production and employment in MSMEs, it said.The survey, prepared by the Economic Division of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance and formulated under the supervision of the chief economic adviser, also highlighted changes in data on credit disbursal as another measure for better decision making.The survey recommended tracking statistics on industry-wise gross disbursement of bank credit as opposed to the data on outstanding credit currently available. It also called for tracking industry-wise monthly gross financial flows through domestic and external equity and debt routes as well as other financing sources
 
The news published on the date July 23, 2024 10:20 AM IST with headline  Economic Survey 2023-24 has the right prescription for coal power plants is: 
 Thermal power plant The Economic Survey 2023-24 suggested a balanced approach to energy transition, giving priority to cleaner technologies rather than a particular energy source. Solar and wind face intermittency issues. Discontinuous energy supply impacts grid stability. In the absence of affordable battery storage technologies, the Survey says India should continue to use thermal power to meet the base load electricity demand.“India needs to target diversified energy sources, including renewables, green hydrogen, nuclear, and biofuels,” the Economic Survey suggested. “Th
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 02:25 PM IST with headline  India in middle of private capex upcycle aided by government push is: 
 India in the midst of a private capex upcycle aided by government capex: Economic Survey 2024 India is in the midst of a private capex upcycle that has been aided by government capital expenditure, the Economic Survey 2023-24 has said.Gross Fixed Capital Formaton (GFCF) by private non-financial corporations increased by 19.8 per cent in FY23, the survey, citing data from the National Accounts Statistics 2024, released by the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MoSPI), said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“There are early signs that the momentum in private capital formation has been sustained in FY24,” the survey added.Gross Fixed Capital Formation has emerged as an important driver of growth, as indicated in its rising share of nominal GDP, the survey noted.The Economic Survey added that data provided by Axis Bank Research showed that private investment across a consistent set of over 3,200 listed and unlisted non-financial firms grew by 19.8 percent in FY24.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 02:17 PM IST with headline  Economic Survey shows rise in foreign tourists in India, indicates revival in tourism is: 
 India sees increase in foreign tourist arrivals pin 2023, showed economic survey. In the post-pandemic period, India's travel and tourism sector has shown strong signs of revival with foreign tourist arrivals (FTAs), one of the laggards in this space, showing signs of growth, the Economic Survey 2023-24 highlighted.The industry recorded over 92 lakh foreign tourist arrivals in 2023, clocking a 43.5 percent year-on-year (YoY) increase.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe tourism sector in India is rapidly expanding, with India being ranked 39th in the World Economic Forum's Travel and Tourism Development Index (TTDI) 2024, the survey said.India earned foreign exchange receipts of over Rs 2.3 lakh crore through tourism, indicating a 65.7 percent YoY increase. India's share of foreign exchange earnings in world tourism receipts increased from 1.38 percent in 2021 to 1.58 percent in 2022.Domestic tourism
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 02:40 PM IST with headline  Economic Survey 2023-24: Here are the key highlights is: 
 The Budget Session of Parliament has commenced today. On July 22, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman presented the Economic Survey of India 2023-24, along with a statistical appendix, in both Houses of Parliament. She is scheduled to present the Union Budget for 2024-25 in the Lok Sabha on July 23. This marks the first Budget of the Modi Government's third consecutive term in office.Here are the key highlights of the Economic Survey 2023-24.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdGlobal Growth: 3.2% in 2023, impacted by domestic issues, geopolitical conflicts, and monetary tightening.India's Performance: Real GDP grew by 8.2% in FY24, maintaining strong momentum despite global challenges.Capital Formation: Rs 10.9 lakh crore raised in FY24, covering 29% of capital formation.Sector Transformation: Financial sector evolving with potential vulnerabilities; need for agile policy interventions.Inflation Trends: Core inflation fell in FY24, with retail inflation driven down. RBI projects 4.5% inflation in FY25.Global Pressures: Inflation affected by pandemic, geopolitical tensions, and supply disruptions.Trade Balance: Merchandise imports moderated; services exports rose by 4.9% to $ 341.1 billion.Debt Sustainability: External debt at 18.7% of GDP, with improved logistics performance.Growth Strategy: Focus on private investment, MSME growth, agriculture, green transition financing, education-employment gap, and state capacity.Sustained Growth: Potential for 7%+ growth with continued structural reforms and collaboration between government and private sector.Renewable Energy: Non-fossil sources constitute 45.4% of installed capacity.Green Bonds: Rs 36,000 crore raised in 2023 for emission reduction projects.Welfare Reforms: Ayushman Bharat scheme has generated 34.7 crore cards and covered 7.37 crore hospital admissions, saving over ₹1.25 lakh crore in out-of-pocket expenses.Labor Market: Unemployment rate at 3.2%; EPFO net payroll additions doubled in five years.Sector Growth: Livestock sector grew at 7.38% CAGR; fisheries sector at 8.9% CAGR.Tech Adoption: Digital Agriculture Mission and e-NAM for smart agriculture technologies.Industrial Growth: 9.5% growth in FY24; significant improvements in manufacturing, construction, and mining.Coal Production: Record 997.2 million tonnes produced, reducing import dependence
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 02:14 PM IST with headline  Draft deep tech startup policy to address funding, infrastructure constraints is: 
 India's draft deep tech startup policy was released for consultation on July 2023 The upcoming National Deep Tech Start-up Policy (NDTSP), which has been in the pipeline since mid 2023, addresses barriers such as limited funding, resource and infrastructure constraints, and risks associated with emerging technologies, the Economic Survey, tabled in Parliament on July 22, said.In July 2023 , a draft National Deep Tech Startup Policy (NDTSP) was released for stakeholders’ comments. It is aimed at addressing the challenges confronting deep tech startups through definitive policy interventions to create a conducive ecosystem.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"It (the draft policy) intervenes by designing funding mechanisms that embrace the concept of ‘failing by design’, conducting funding awareness programs for start-up founders to diversify their funding sources, establishing a centralised core mission office to streamline approval processes and facilitate intellectual property protection, fostering awareness in Tier 2 and 3 cities, and designing a monitoring mechanism based on mapping key performance indicators," the pre- survey said,Earlier, it was reported that the deep tech startup policy may be announced in the Budget. Moneycontrol also reported how the deep tech startup policy was likely to feature in the government's 100-day agenda after the elections.“The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) is formulating and finalising the cabinet note, since they have the startup domain. The policy tries to define deep tech startups and create a policy regime tailored towards helping them. Once the policy is approved, then there will be talk about specific schemes, on a separate funding window, whether it is a fund of funds or something else that is a little down the line. But as of now, the cabinet note is in the final stages,” an official had earlier told Moneycontrol
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 02:12 PM IST with headline  India to seek licences to scout Pacific Ocean for critical minerals is: 
 India to seek licences to scout Pacific Ocean for critical minerals India will apply for licences to explore for deep-sea minerals in the Pacific Ocean as it competes to secure supplies of minerals critical for energy transition technologies, a top government scientist told Reuters.The UN-backed International Seabed Authority (ISA) has issued 31 deep-sea exploration licences, including two for India in the Indian Ocean, but is yet to allow mining because the 36-member body is still working on regulations.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe 36-member ISA council is meeting in Jamaica this month to negotiate the latest draft of a mining code.M. Ravichandran, the top scientist at India's Ministry of Earth Sciences, said his ministry will work closely with India's mining industry as it readies to apply next year for exploration of seabed minerals in the Pacific.India's critical minerals plans in the Pacific have not been previously reported.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 02:10 PM IST with headline  Economic Survey sets balanced tone; India on track to be developed economy, says Niti Aayog’s Suman Bery is: 
 Bery noted that India's growth-inflation trade-off in recent years has been more favorable than that of many other economies. Niti Aayog vice chairman Suman Bery praised the Economic Survey 2024 for its balanced and sober tone, saying India was on track to be developed country in next 25 years.In an exclusive interview to CNBC-TV18, Bery said the Budget, to be presented on July 23, was hopeful that some of the key themes highlighted in the survey would be included in the government.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndia could become a developed economy within the next 25 years, capitalizing on its demographic dividend and significant productivity increase.India could become a global provider of financial services despite its current lower credit-to-GDP ratio, the vice chairman of the government think tank.Bery stressed on the importance of protecting retail investors from potential adverse effects due to movements by savvy foreign investors.Follow our live blog for the latest on the Economic Survey 2024
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 01:55 PM IST with headline  Economic Survey flags lack of demand, indigenous tech, competitive market in India's space sector is: 
 India sends its 100th satellite in space: India's Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle, in its forty second flight (PSLV-C40), successfully launched the 710 kg Cartosat-2 Series Satellite for earth observation and 30 co-passenger satellites together weighing about 613 kg at lift-off on Friday. PSLV-C40 was launched from the First Launch Pad (FLP) of Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC) SHAR, Sriharikota. (Reuters) The Economic Survey, tabled in Parliament on July 22, hailed India's burgeoning space sector growth while acknowledging challenges such as gaps in indigenous technology development and uncertain long-term demand.Highlighting milestones like Chandrayaan-3's moon landing and advancements by private space startups, the report underscores the sector's role in the government's strategic agenda.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Economic Survey, tabled by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on July 22, said that the country boasts a fleet of 55 active space assets, catering to various needs like communication, navigation, Earth observation, meteorology, and scientific research. This strong foundation positions India for further exploration and innovation in the exciting realm of space.The Economic Survey, mainly observed challenges in the sector, when it came to the adoption of space technology, lack of technology needed for indigenisation, lack of competitive marketplace and so on."Adoption of space-based technology and services are often related to their adequate integration into the societal applications, towards meeting the requirements of end users," the Economic Survey said.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 01:55 PM IST with headline  Steep interest rates, uncertain tax policy may limit FDI flows into India: Economic Survey is: 
 Economic survey has cautioned banks on rampant misselling Higher interest rates as well as considerable subsidies for industries in developed economies may limit the growth of foreign direct investment (FDI) flows into India, noted the Economic Survey for 2023-24.Elaborating on the reasons behind a not to favourable environment for growth in FDI, the survey said that since interest rates in developed countries are much higher than they were during and beforeCovid years, it gives investors a higher opportunity cost to invest abroad.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAnd on top of that, emerging economies have to now compete with active industrial policies indeveloped economies involving considerable subsidies that encourage domestic investment, the survey added.The Economy Survey was released on July 22, a day before Finance Minister Sitharaman is scheduled to present the Budget for the ongoing financial year.Net FDI inflows to India declined from $42.0 billion during FY23 to $26.5 billion in FY24. However,in gross terms the moderation was by only 0.6 per cent in the previous fiscal year.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 02:13 PM IST with headline  India has created 21 SaaS unicorns since 2014, per Eco Survey 2024 is: 
 Economic Survey on SaaS The demand for scalable and efficient cloud solutions has led to the growth of Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) startups, resulting in India creating around 21 unicorns since 2014, the Economic Survey 2024, tabled in Parliament by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on July 22, said."The strength of the Indian tech start-up ecosystem lies in its large pool of start-ups, unicorns, and ability to scale," the survey, which gives a detailed account on the economy, its prospects and the policy challenges, added.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe highlights on SaaS in the survey comes amid increased growth and interest within India's SaaS ecosystem from investors.Follow our live blog for the latest on the Economic Survey 2024The Indian SaaS industry is poised to grow by 2.5X to reach a revenue if $26 billion by the end of 2026 despite a current slowdown due to tight macroeconomic pressure and a stiff funding winter, a recent report by VC firm Chiratae in collaboration with Zinnov said.In 2022, the government initiated projects such as 'Meghraj' for accelerating service delivery.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 03:43 PM IST with headline  Hiring in IT sector unlikely to pick up significantly, says Economic Survey is: 
 Representative image The Economic Survey for the financial year 2023-24, tabled on July 22 in the Parliament, said that hiring in the information technology (IT) sector had slowed down considerably in the last financial year, and even if hiring does not decline further, it is unlikely to pick up significantly.The comment on the IT sector in the Survey comes at a time when headcount in some of the biggest IT companies declined for the first time in decades. In February, tech industry body Nasscom had said the sector will create just 60,000 new jobs in the FY24, which pales in comparison to the 270,000 jobs that the sector created in the previous fiscal year.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdNonetheless, the additions in FY24 would take the total to 5.43 million employees in the services export sector.“However, leveraging the initiatives taken by the government and capturing the untapped potential in emerging markets, exports of business, consultancy and IT-enabled services can expand,” the survey read.The document further says that IT and business services will likely retain their prominent international presence in the medium term.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 01:46 PM IST with headline  Private capital formation slows down amid caution over cheaper imports: Economic Survey is: 
 Capex push to be cautious Private capex may take a little more to pick up after good growth over the last three years, as companies turn cautious, given the fears of countries exporting excess capacity at lower rates to India, said the Economic Survey 2023-24 on July 22.“There are early signs that the momentum in private capital formation has been sustained in FY24,” it said.Story continues below AdvertisementGross fixed capital formation was an important driver of growth in FY24, with the segment expanding in double digits.“GFCF by private non-financial corporations increased by 19.8 percent in FY23. There are early signs that the momentum in private capital formation has been sustained in FY24,” the survey noted.It said that with healthy balance sheets, banking and financial sector was well poised to cater to growing financing needs. “Improved balance sheets will help the private sector cater to strong investment demand.”The survey pointed out that households have also been party to this growth, with housing sales indicating a push for capital formation.The government’s capex increased nearly 30 percent in FY24, and is likely to continue in FY25 as well, according to experts
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 01:39 PM IST with headline  E-KYC cost down from Rs 1,000 to less than Rs 6: Economic survey 2024 is: 
 Representative image The use of Aadhaar card services has significantly eased the electronic Know Your Customer (e-KYC) process for organisations, while reducing the cost from around Rs 1,000 ($12) to less than Rs 6 (6 cents), the Economic Survey 2024 showed.KYC is one of the most vital process for financial institutions and businesses to get information like identity, addresses, phone numbers, etc. of customers. This is done to get a better understanding of the their identity and prevent fraudulent activities.Story continues below AdvertisementTypically, varied forms of identification documents can be used to electronically verify the customer’s credentials. However, amongst all, Aadhar card has remained the most convenient and commonly used.“Aadhaar has been instrumental in transforming India's authentication ecosystem. It has facilitated the KYC process, reducing the cost of conducting e-KYC from USD 12 to 6 cents, extending banking to millions of Indians and improving financial inclusion,” the survey said.The survey also highlighted advances made in 'Digital Financial Inclusion (DFI)' by leveraging India Stack, which has enabled millions to accept payments, settle invoices, and transfer funds anywhere in the country with just a few screen taps.Among the three critical components of India stack--identity, payment and data governance—Aadhar has been an important in the identity layer, the Survey said
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 01:29 PM IST with headline  Economic Survey nudges states to speed up implementation of labour codes is: 
 Further, the survey highlighted that there exist other regulatory hurdles to employment generation such as higher overtime wage premiums and barriers to job opportunities for women. The Economic Survey has nudged states to expedite the enactment of labour codes, saying rules needed to implement them have not been framed or notified.Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman tabled the survey, often described as the economic report card of the government, in Parliament on July 22, a day ahead of the Budget.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Industrial Relations Code, Code on Social Security, and Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code were passed by Parliament in 2020. In the Monsoon Session of 2019, the Code on Wages was passed but the rules necessary for their implementation have not been formulated and notified since then.“Labour” is in the Concurrent List of the Constitution and the power to make rules is entrusted with the Centre and states.There is also a need for pre-publication of rules by states in their respective official gazette for public consultation.Follow our live blog for the latest on the Economic Survey 2024
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 01:20 PM IST with headline  Prioritising a stable and simple tax regime in Budget 2024 to enhance ease of doing business is: 
 Businesses are now calling for stable and simplified tax laws to enhance the ease of doing business. By Gokul Chaudhri In the World Bank’s Doing Business Report 2020, India's ranking improved significantly, jumping 79 spots from 2014 to reach 63rd out of 190 countries. This progress underscores India's commitment to regulatory reforms, faster approvals, streamlined imports/exports, and reduced compliance burdens, all aimed at fostering transparency and accountability in business operations.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRecent tax policies, including corporate tax rationalisation and Goods and Services Tax (GST), have driven significant tax buoyancy, resulting in record-high revenues. Businesses are now calling for stable and simplified tax laws to enhance the ease of doing business and support India’s growth trajectory. Approximately 67 percent of industry leaders, according to a Deloitte Survey, anticipate this to be a key focus in the upcoming budget. A stable and pragmatic tax policy is crucial for sustainable business expansion and increased foreign investments, reducing uncertainty caused by frequent policy changes and disputes.Simplified tax structure: Navigating India’s tax structure has long been a formidable task for businesses, impacting their operational efficiency and overall ease of doing business. There is a pressing need to shift the tax paradigm from focusing on rates to prioritising revenue generation. This transformation can be achieved through moderate tax rates and an expanded tax base, aligning with the vision of 'Developed India' by 2047. Simplifying the tax structure could entail implementing a unified rate for businesses, while individuals can benefit from a straight forward 2 to 3 tier-rate structure featuring low or moderate rates, eliminating surcharges, cesses and maximising deductions.With the rising inflation, the current standard deduction limit of INR 50,000 is insufficient to cover the escalating costs and expenses associated with higher standard of living. There is a strong expectation for a higher linked standard deduction. Additionally, suspending tax compliance requirements during maternity or other significant life events would significantly reduce the compliance burden for individuals, particularly women.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 01:43 PM IST with headline  Around 77 % companies liquidated under IBC were already defunct, says Economic Survey is: 
 According to the Survey, over 3000 companies have emerged out of the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP) as of March 2024 The Economic Survey of India which was made available on July 22 revealed that around 2,476 companies went to liquidation under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) as of March 2024."Around 77 per cent of these corporate debtors were defunct at the beginning of the process and were, on average, valued at 7 per cent of the outstanding debt," the survey said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAccording to the survey, liquidation gives the last window of opportunity for the revival of a company. It said "Around 50 businesses have been rescued at this last resort. 586 firms were dissolved at the end of the liquidation process, releasing whatever resources were needed for alternate uses."The IBC was introduced to strengthen the corporate insolvency regime. The code introduced timeframes for resolving corporate insolvencies. The survey revealed that the eight years since it was introduced in 2016, 31,394 corporate debtors involving a value of Rs 13.9 lakh crore have been disposed of (including pre-admission case disposals) as of March 2024Threat of loss of control pushing promoters to settle cases:
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 01:09 PM IST with headline  PLI scheme expansion will help lower trade deficit is: 
 Trade deficit to lower The external conditions are likely to remain steady for India with trade deficit declining further as the government expands the production linked incentive scheme and "creates a globally competitive manufacturing base in several product categories", the Economic Survey 2023-24 said.India’s current account deficit reduced to 0.7 percent of the GDP in FY24, as the country posted a surplus in the last quarter of the fiscal.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"India needs to focus on improving its competitiveness in many product areas. For example, India has tremendous potential in becoming a large global exporter in agricultural commodities.The reduction in trade deficit from 2 percent in the previous fiscal follows from a reduction in trade deficit as commodity prices normalised in FY24, as services and remittances trade boomed for the country," noted.In the fourth quarter, current account returned to surplus after a hiatus of 11 quarters.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 01:05 PM IST with headline  India must strike right balance in goods and capital imports from China: Economic Survey 2023-24 is: 
 Economics Survey on FDI India needs to strike the right balance between goods and capital imports from China, said the Economic Survey 2023-24, highlighting how the country can take advantage of the China-plus-one strategy.India’s foreign direct investment fell to its lowest level in five years at $71 billion in FY24, according to data released by the ministry of commerce.Story continues below AdvertisementIndia slipped seven ranks to 15 in the World Investment Ranking in 2023 as FDI inflows fell 43 percent, a report released by the United Nations Conference of Trade and Development on June 20 showed.The country ranked second with 163 international project deals signed in 2023, with the US leading the league at 334.In terms of greenfield projects, India was ranked fourth with 1,058 projects, after the US, UAE and the UK.India moved up the ranks in terms of outflows as well, with the country ranking 20th in 2023 compared with 23rd a year back. Outflows increased to $15 billion from $13 billion in the previous year
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 01:08 PM IST with headline  Short-term inflation outlook benign, says Economic Survey is: 
 Economic survey on food inflation The external conditions are likely to remain steady for India with trade deficit declining further, as the government expands the production linked incentive scheme and "creates a globally competitive manufacturing base in several product categories", the Economic Survey 2023-24 said.Current account deficit (CAD) stood at 0.7 percent of the GDP in FY24, as the country posted a surplus in the last quarter of the fiscal. The deficit was at 2 per cent in FY23.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"India needs to focus on improving its competitiveness in many product areas. For example, India has tremendous potential in becoming a large global exporter in agricultural commodities.Also read: Economic Survey pegs FY25 GDP growth at 6.5-7%The reduction in trade deficit from 2 percent in the previous fiscal follows from a reduction in trade deficit as commodity prices normalised in FY24, as services and remittances trade boomed for the country," the survey, tabled by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Parliament, said.
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 12:47 PM IST with headline  India needs to add 7.9 million jobs annually till 2030, says Economic Survey 2023-24 is: 
 Economic Survey on jobs The Indian economy needs to add 7.85 million jobs every year until 2030 in the non-farm sector, according to the Economic Survey 2023-24.The total additions to the workforce at 46.7 million in 2023-24 were the highest since 1981-82, with the rate of growth at 6 percent also outpacing the previous three decades, according to recent data released by the Reserve Bank of India using its KLEMS database.Story continues below AdvertisementFormal employment data released by the government last month showed that over 31 million people entered the formal workforce for the first time in FY24.Out of these, 21 million joined the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation, and another 10 million joined the Employees’ Provident Fund Scheme.A July survey by the NCAER and the NSE found that employment outlook has improved for the next two quarters, with companies looking to hire more.The recently released PMI surveys also highlighted a similar phenomenon, with job creation rising fastest pace in decades, after a slow pace in FY24
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 11:42 AM IST with headline  Digital paralysis shows the dangers of e-globalisation is: 
 The digital paralysis rapidly spread around the world causing massive disruptions. John Thornhill The warp-speed digitalisation of our economies and societies has brought immense benefits. But it has also created huge vulnerabilities as today’s global outage demonstrated. For too long, governments and companies have acted on the assumption that cyber resilience is important but not urgent. The scale of this most recent digital failure — “the largest IT outage in history”, according to one security analyst — may help shift those considerations into the urgent bucket.Rather than anything mor
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 11:25 AM IST with headline  Budget Snapshot: India’s effective corporate tax rate is now closer to global peers is: 
 - The OECD recently came out with its flagship report Corporate Tax Statistics with updated country-wise information on global corporate taxation. The publication is part of the global effort to ensure that multinational corporations pay their due taxes in the countries where they earn them.While the publication itself has a trove of information and findings, what should be of broad interest is the data on global effective average tax rates. We took this data for 2019 and 202
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 11:08 AM IST with headline  Understanding the origins of Modi government’s economic philosophy ahead of Budget 2024-25 is: 
 State policies are based on a mixture of political, social, economic and military considerations. (Sanghnomics is a weekly column that tracks down and demystifies the economic world view of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and organisations inspired by its ideology.)As we get ready for the Union budget 2024-25 that is scheduled to be presented on 23 July, we can expect a continuity in keeping ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ as the guiding principle of the Modi government’s economic policy. Aatmanirbhar Bharat implies India needs to be self-reliant. This has been the foundation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s governance model since he assumed the charge in 2014.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThengadi and his ‘Third Way’Aatmanirbhara Bharat is an outcome of an economic philosophy laid down by Dattopant Thengadi, an ideological stalwart of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), an ideological mentor of the Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP). Thengadi called it ‘Third Way’. He started talking extensively about it from the 1950s. Thengadi was the founder of Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh BMS), India’s largest labour organisation. He also founded Bharatiya Kisan Sangh(BKS), the largest farmers’ organisation of India and Swadeshi Jagaran Manch(SJM), a policy advocacy group with strong impact. All these organisations have been working in their respective field for promotion of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ much before the BJP even came to power at the Centre. Thengadi and his philosophy of ‘Third Way’ guides their policies, perspectives and on ground actions.What is ‘Third Way’
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 08:52 AM IST with headline  In Budget 2024, government should help accelerate capacity additions in power sector is: 
 Fiscal year 2023-24 (FY24) marked the revival of the electricity generation capacity additions in India. The country added 25,910 megawatts (MW) of capacities, the highest in seven years. Tracking the rising electricity usage, companies began . Still, India is walking a fine line in meeting the electricity demand. If demand grows at the current pace and accelerates, then the country may fall short of meeting future energy requirements.Consider the math: the current expansion i
 
The news published on the date July 22, 2024 08:23 AM IST with headline  MC Daily Monsoon Tracker: Rainfall deficit narrows further to 1% is: 
 Rainfall deficit narrows further to 1 percent India’s rainfall deficit narrowed further to lowest level of 1 percent as of July 21, as a number of states where the rain was deficient declined to 10 from 12, data released by the India Meteorological Department (IMD)shows.The number of states with normal monsoon rain rose back to 16, with 10 states getting excessive or "large excess" rainfall.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdUneven distribution of rainfall has been a concern, as several places have reported record rain, sometimes a month's rainfall has poured in a day, causing damage to life and property. Unequal rain also poses a risk to agriculture, fuelling inflation worries.Northwest, east and northeast continue to face worse weather conditions. Chandigarh and Jharkhand continue to have a deficit of over 50 percent, with Himachal Pradesh, Punjab and neighbouring Haryana still 40 percent short of the normal rain.
 
The news published on the date July 21, 2024 08:31 PM IST with headline  Economic Survey to be presented on Monday, a day before Budget; check timings, other details is: 
 Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman The Union government is set to table the Economic Survey on Monday as the wait for the full Budget for 2024-25. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will table the pre-budget document in Parliament, a day ahead of the Budget presentation. The Economic Survey 2023-24 will be presented in Lok Sabha at 1 pm and in Rajya Sabha at 2 pm. The press conference will take place 02.30 pm at NMCThe Economic Survey document, prepared by the Economic Division of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance and formulated under the supervision of the chief economic adviser, will give insights into the state of the economy and various indicators of 2023-24 (April-March) and some outlook for the current year. The Economy Survey document may also give some idea about the tone and texture of the Budget for 2024-25, to be presented on Tuesday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad Watch Chief Economic Adviser to the Government of India, Dr. V. Anantha Nageswaran’s Press Conference on Economic Survey 2023-24 TOMORROW⏰ 02.30 pm️ 22nd July 2024
 
The news published on the date July 21, 2024 07:41 PM IST with headline  “Data Is Untenable” Says ICMR DG Dr Rajiv Bahl | Numbers Includes All Death Not Covid Deaths Alone
 
The news published on the date July 21, 2024 10:51 AM IST with headline  MC Daily Monsoon Tracker: Rainfall deficit narrows to lowest level in 10 days is: 
 Rainfall deficit narrows India’s rainfall deficit narrowed to lowest level of 1.4 percent as of July 20, even as eastern and north-western states in the country fell further into deficit, according to data released by the Indian Meteorological Department.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe number of states with deficient rainfall was 11 on July 20, with another seven facing excess rainfall and three experiencing large excess rainfall.Chandigarh continues to experience over 50 percent deficit, with Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Jharkhand experiencing over 30 percent deficit.
 
The news published on the date July 20, 2024 10:01 AM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Weekender | High Hopes is: 
 - Dear Reader,Most commentary on the Union Budget to be unveiled on Tuesday has been to the effect that it should strike a balance between fiscal consolidation, capex and a push to consumption. The tax buoyancy and the mega RBI dividend are expected to give the government enough leeway to do all three.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBut that begs the question: why should the government be so diffident? For Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the next five years will probably decide what legacy he wishes to leave behind. He has already articulated that vision, not just in his Viksit Bharat and Amrit Kaal slogans, not just in the economic reforms that have been done in his last two terms as prime minister, but also through pronouncements of further reforms promised in various budgets. It’s time to walk that talk.With the world turning away from China, this is the time for India to seize the moment. This is not a time for balance, it’s a time to be bold. It’s a time for dreaming big, of charging ahead with the enormous task of transforming India from a land of peasants and petty producers to a modern competitive capitalist economy. The first Budget in Modi’s third term provides an ideal platform not just to outline the government’s plan for achieving that objective, but also to put a timeline to it.So far, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s Budgets have never been populist. Her 2021 Budget was a dream one, with promises of privatisation, higher capex, higher foreign direct investment, a bad bank, production-linked incentives for creating global manufacturing champions, monetisation of government land, ports, airports, roads, pipelines and closure of sick public sector units. It also set new standards of transparency by bringing off-budget spending into the budget estimates.
 
The news published on the date July 20, 2024 08:58 AM IST with headline  Fiscal Deficit: Go easy or pull back? What markets are likely to reward is: 
 Union Budget By Nilesh Shah, Managing Director at Kotak Mahindra AMCThe Union Budget 2024-25 will be presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on July 23. The fiscal deficit is avidly observed during the Union Budget presentation as it may impact various factors including the country’s rating. Also, the S&P has guided that a 7 percent or below combined (central + state governments) fiscal deficit could lead to a sovereign rating upgrade. The Government of India (GOI) has been able to walk the path of fiscal prudence and trim fiscal deficit from 9.3 percent in FY21 to 5.1 percent for FY25 (as per vote on account). The government fiscal policy has been non-inflationary so far at the same time the push for capex has been much appreciated by the markets.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn one hand the government is keeping the fiscal deficit under control, on the other hand the RBI has done a commendable job in lowering inflation and maintaining robust growth. The effect of the same has been observed in both short term and long-term rates. Over the last 2 years, where the US has raised rates by 525 bps, India raised only by 250 bps. Long-term rates are up by 250 bps in the US and 25 bps in India. Globally, the broad themes are dollar weakness and dollar assets de-rating over the next 10 years. Hence, global investors are looking for economies with a superior macro front.Click Here To Read All Budget ExpectationsThe Indian equity market is the best performing in the emerging markets and is among the top 10 largest (by market cap) in the world. Additionally, GOI and the Indian economy are going to reap the benefits of Govt bonds being included in global indices. Since the announcement of the inclusion of Indian government bonds in the JP Morgan GBI-EM, Indian Government Bonds has seen net inflows of Rs 90,000 crore till June 2024. This clearly shows that global investors are looking to increase their allocation to the Indian market.
 
The news published on the date July 20, 2024 08:49 AM IST with headline  Union Budget: Govt to strike a balance between fiscal deficit, capex for growth, social spending is: 
 Union Budget By Krishna Rao, Managing Director & Co-Head - Equity Broking at JM Financial ServicesThe upcoming Union Budget is expected to lay a strong foundation for India’s economic, infrastructure, and social development for the next decade, with strong reform measures and a visionary blueprint for growth. With the focus on adding further impetus and consolidating the ‘India growth story’, it is expected that the pace of reforms would be greatly expedited to accelerate progress. In addition, expectations would be high as this would be the first full-year budget for NDA 3.0.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWe believe that the government would strike a balance between Fiscal Deficit, Capex for growth and Social spending. The continuation of the existing Capex agenda (Infrastructure, Railways, Defence, Renewable/Clean energy), higher budgetary allocation to revive the rural economy, job creation and a firm roadmap for 'Viksit Bharat' by 2047 would be the key theme for the Union Budget 2024-25. Markets would also keenly await any adverse changes in the capital gains tax on equities. In case there is no change in capital gains tax it would be considered positive for the Indian equity markets.Fiscal ConsolidationThe government would adopt a path to fiscal consolidation to balance macroeconomic growth with stability. The government would attempt to maintain the fiscal deficit for FY25 below 5.1 percent, with a target of achieving 4.5 percent by FY26, as forecasted.
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 08:53 PM IST with headline  I-T portal remains insulated against impact of Microsoft outage is: 
 The deadline for filing income tax returns (ITR) for 2024 is July 31. The income tax department portal did not face any major disruptions and worked fine despite the Microsoft global outage, the department and chartered accountants said.“Don't think there are any issues at present,” Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said late in the evening on July 19.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOne of the world's major global system outages disrupted airline operations, stock markets activities, some media broadcast operations, and payment gateways across time zones, on July 19.“Today @IncomeTaxIndia portal response was good, 26AS AIS/TIS download was also pretty good,” a chartered accountant said.Today @IncomeTaxIndia portal response was good, 26AS AIS/TIS download was also pretty good— Basu-CA & RV (@Basappamv
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 08:44 PM IST with headline  MOSPI reconstitutes committee to advise on price index revisions is: 
 The revamped committee will advise the ministry on creation of new indices on consumer prices, wholesale prices and producer price index, which will help determine consumer inflation and wholesale inflation In a bid to revise the inflation indicators in the country, the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MOSPI) has announced the reconstitution of the technical advisory committee, or TAC, on statistics of prices and cost of living.The revamped committee will advise the ministry on creation of new indices on consumer prices, wholesale prices and producer price index, which will help determine consumer inflation and wholesale inflation.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt present, the base year and basket of goods considered by India is over a decade old, with both following 2012 as the base year.The government had in June released the full results of the Household Consumption Expenditure Survey 2022-23, which will determine the basket of goods for new consumer price index series.The ministry is conducting two back-to-back surveys to verify the results, as it had to junk the 2017-18 results citing data inconsistencies.
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 08:20 PM IST with headline  Fruits and vegetables, processed cereal exports jump 9% in Q1FY25 is: 
 India's fruit trade rises Exports of fruits and vegetables and cereal preparations and miscellaneous product items increased 9 percent in the first quarter of FY25, as per data released by Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) on July 19.While the over agricultural trade declined by 3 percent, owing to restrictions on rice and decline in cashew and oil meals products, trade in non-regulated categories was 3 percent higher, Abhishek Dev, chairman, APEDA said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn the first two months of the year, dairy products were up 30 percent, whereas an increase in global cocoa prices pushed the trade up by 50 percent.On the other hand, non-basmati rice trade, the exports of which have been banned, was down 13 percent, and maize exports had dropped 75 percent compared with the previous year.Maize exports were down, as prices of domestic market are higher than the international market and there is good production across the globe.
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 07:11 PM IST with headline  Economic Survey preview: Watch for GDP growth forecast, comments on food inflation, climate strategies is: 
 The country's average real GDP growth has been more than 7 percent over the last three years. The Economic Survey will be presented on July 22, a day ahead of the full Budget for 2024-25. The survey will outline the key economic metrics of the country, most notably the forecast for real GDP growth for the ongoing financial year.Moneycontrol lists key things to watch out for in the series of documents that are prepared under the supervision of India's chief economic advisor V Anantha Nageswaran.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdGDP growth forecastThe keenly awaited number in the Economic Survey is the GDP growth forecast for the ongoing financial year. In the last full survey presented on January 31, 2023, GDP growth was seen in the range of 6-6.8 percent for FY24. This was much lower than the statistics ministry’s latest estimate that sees GDP growth at 8.2 percent in FY24.On January 29, two days before the interim Budget for 2024-25 was presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on February 1, the finance ministry came out with a report which estimated a GDP growth rate of close to 7 percent for the ongoing fiscal year.
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 06:00 PM IST with headline  Business sentiment sees further improvement in first quarter of FY25: NCAER-NSE Survey is: 
 The survey indicated that firms expecting an improvement in conditions went up to 71 percent from 66 percent earlier. Business sentiment in India improved to 149.8 from 138.2 in the first quarter of the fiscal year, indicating a carry forward of momentum from the previous year, according to a survey released by NCAER and NSE on July 19. The results come just days before the government is to release its economic survey, predicting future trajectory of growth and Budget.The survey indicated that firms expecting an improvement in conditions went up to 71 percent from 66 percent earlier.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe survey interviewed 497 firms across six cities in June to find out their assessment of the present climate, capacity utilisation, financial conditions, and economic assessment over the next six months.“Firms’ perception about the improvement in their own financial position is particularly noteworthy as the share of such firms was 67 percent, the highest since Q3 of 2010-11 (76%),” said Bornali Bhandari, professor, NCAER.The number of firms perceiving an improvement in investment climate went up to 60 percent from nearly half in the previous quarter, with 97.8 percent reporting capacity utilisation at optimal levels.
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 05:23 PM IST with headline  Portal to address non-tariff issues within 2-3 months: Commerce ministry is: 
 Non-tariffs measures on trade rise The ministry of commerce and industry will have a portal ready to address non-tariff issues within the next two-three months, the additional secretary, department of commerce, said on July 19.“We are monitoring through a committee and coming up with a portal on sanitary and phytosanitary and technical barriers to trade issues,” Rajesh Agrawal said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“We will try to get all exporters who raise concerns. There is a task force looking at resolution strategy and a portal will monitor efforts,” he noted.According to an UNCTAD study, the trade costs of non tariff measures are more than double of tariff measures.Agrawal noted that as trade increases, such kinds of measures are expected to increase.
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 06:31 PM IST with headline  The Reading List: July 19, 2024 is: 
 A list of articles and social media gems curated by our research and opinion teams. In a world strapped for time, we thought you may find it useful to have a selection of articles we read this past week. As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. Occasionally, we may stray from these subjects.These links may be from external websites we frequent o
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 03:08 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | A rate of debate is: 
 It is that interest rate where the economy is growing at potential and the inflation rate is at target. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIf there is one debate that refuses to die among economists, it is that of the real interest rate, or the natural rate of an economy. Natural rate is the interest rate at which an economy operates at full capacity without being inflationary. In other words, it is that interest rate where the economy is growing at potential and the inflation rate is at target.India’s natural rate was estimated to have been reduced to 1.1 percent, after the global financial crisis. But much has changed since then and a punishing pandemic in 2020 has upended several economic assumptions across the globe. The Reserve Bank of India’s staff has updated the natural rate and estimates it to be in the 1.4-1.9 percent range for the fourth quarter of FY24, far higher than 0.8-1.0 percent estimated for the third quarter of FY22. This is consistent with the view that the economy’s potential growth rate has increased post pandemic, in contrast to popular beliefs of the pandemic dragging the potential down for a long period.The RBI believes that there are several structural factors contributing to an increase in India’s growth potential. Aside the tax reforms such as the goods and services tax (GST), demographic changes that boast of a large share of working class population, fiscal prudence, and technological innovation leading to productivity gains would contribute to increasing economic potential.
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 02:51 PM IST with headline  Spatial spread of monsoon needs to correct for food inflation to cool, say economists is: 
 Rice production affected by spatial anomalies A course correction for the monsoon appears essential to tame down the simmering price rise in India.Inflation in rice and pulses is likely to stay elevated unless the spatial spread of monsoon doesn't alter, according to economists. A Moneycontrol analysis of agriculture ministry data shows that some states like Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana and West Bengal are recording below-normal sowing of rice.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“While overall monsoon is normal at pan-India level, there is considerable volatility at the state level, spatial spread is a concern,” said Paras Jasrai, senior analyst at India Ratings and Research.While rice and pulses sowing has improved compared with the previous year, data shows that it is still lower than the normal level.While rice sowing during the kharif season, for instance, shot up 20 percent from the previous year as of July 12, it was down 44 percent from normal for the corresponding week.
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 02:51 PM IST with headline  India digital public infrastructure is charting the journey towards becoming $1-tn digital economy by 2027-28 is: 
 India’s ‘Digital India’ programme was launched in 2015. The Economic Survey of India for 2023-24—the government's annual report card—will be tabled by Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs Nirmala Sitharaman in Parliament on July 22. Among other things, it is expected to highlight India’s achievements in digital public infrastructure.And those achievements are nothing to sneeze at. “India did an incredible pole vault in digital public infrastructure. We achieved in nine years what would have taken 50 years without DPI,” India’s G20 sherpa Amitabh Kant had said recently. Digital public infrastructure or as it is commonly referred to colloquially, the India stack, lies at the intersection of technology, market and governance, enabling remarkable innovation and palpable change across different realms. Aadhaar, DigiLocker and Unified Payment Interface (UPI) are some of the prime examples of India’s DPI services. UPI achieved the milestone of processing 12 billion transactions in a month in January 2024.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe government is aiming to be a $1-trillion digital economy by 2027-28. As part of this, the Digital India programme was launched in 2015.India aims to develop digital infrastructure as a core utility for every citizen. Between 2015 and 2021, rural internet subscriptions increased by 200 percent, compared to a 158 percent increase in urban areas, aided, no doubt, by the low base effect. This demonstrates the government's intensified efforts to equalise digital connectivity between rural and urban regions, Economic Survey 2023 added.To be sure, the explosion in digital payments has been a driving force in this increased connectedness.
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 02:40 PM IST with headline  India Budget 2024: Capital gain tax regime is too cluttered. It needs an overhaul is: 
 Global expansion of Indian businesses have collectively added to the complexities of computing capital gains. By SR Patnaik, and Reema Arya The Budget 2024 is less than a week away and the taxpayers are eagerly waiting for the revisions and amendments to be introduced by the Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Considering this is the first budget after the general election, it undoubtedly carries the weight of numerous, and at times, unreal expectations.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAmong the myriad of reforms awaited, a comprehensive overhaul of the capital gains tax regime stands out as a top priority for corporations, individuals, and other stakeholders. This is because while the capital gains taxation regime has evolved over the years and the same has led to creation of a large number of sub-categories for taxation of every type of capital asset based on the time-period for which it was held, how it was acquired and being sold, the currency used to acquire, if the asset was acquired as a part of earlier reorganisation, etc.With increasing internationalisation of Indian businesses and economy, increasing collaboration between Indian and global businesses and global expansion of Indian businesses have collectively added to the complexities of computing capital gains. These aspects have led to disparity on account of rate of tax, benefits of indexation or foreign currency fluctuation, benefits available for taxpayers and incentives offered, etc. and creates scope of confusion amongst the various categories of taxpayers.On account of the above factors, it is expected that the Finance Minister will pay heed to the increasing demand for rationalisation and simplification of the capital gains taxation regime in India.
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 02:24 PM IST with headline  What will be Economic Survey’s outlook on growth? is: 
 Economic Survey comes amidst agencies raising India's forecasts The Economic Survey, which will be presented on July 22, will give the growth outlook for the current financial year at a time when India has seen a spate of forecast revisions from international agencies.The survey gives a detailed account of the state of the economy, prospects and the policy challenges. Prepared by chief economic adviser V Anantha Nageswaran, the survey will be presented a day ahead of the budget.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe International Monetary Fund (IMF) raised India’s growth forecast for FY25 to 7 percent from 6.8 percent projected in April, according to its World Economic Outlook released on July 16."The forecast for growth in India has also been revised upward, to 7 percent, this year, with the change reflecting carryover from upwardrevisions to growth in 2023 and improved prospects for private consumption, particularly in rural areas," the IMF said.This is the second revision from the fund, it had earlier projected 6.5 percent growth for FY25.
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 02:01 PM IST with headline  Charting The Future: Chief Economic Advisor V Anantha Nageswaran is: 
 Chief Economic Advisor V Anantha Nageswaran V Anantha Nageswaran, the Chief Economic Advisor (CEA), has completed two years in this pivotal role. The CEA, who prepares the economic survey along with his team, has been pivotal in shaping the country's economic policies. He succeeded KV Subramanian, and was appointed the CEA in January 2022, days ahead of the tabling of the year's economic survey on January 31, which precedes the union budget.In his second year as CEA, Nageswaran was deeply involved in India's G20 Presidency in 2023, particularly in the finance track. He has also been vocal on global issues such as climate finance and the assessment methodologies used by global ratings agencies for emerging markets like India.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBefore being appointed the CEA, Nageswaran served as a part-time member of the Prime Minister’s Economic Advisory Council (PMEAC) from 2019 to 2021. In this role, he contributed to shaping economic policy and providing strategic advice on various economic issues​.Nageswaran's academic background includes a post-graduate diploma in management from the Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Ahmedabad. He also holds a PhD in finance from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, where he focused on exchange rate behaviour. He's taught at business schools and management institutes in India and Singapore, and authored four books, including ‘The Economics of Derivatives’ and ‘The Rise of Finance: Causes, Consequences and Cures.’Nageswaran has also held several leadership roles in his 17-year-long career in the corporate sector, with UBS, Credit Suisse, and Julius Baer. He's worked in roles such as Head of Research and Investment Consulting for Credit Suisse Private Banking in Asia, Global Chief Investment Officer at Julius Baer and in various roles related to macro-economic and capital market research in UBS. His expertise in macroeconomic and capital market research has been widely recognised.
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 12:59 PM IST with headline  Union Budget 2024-25 to balance investment and consumption is: 
 The Budget is expected find a balance between supporting investment and consumption. By K. Ravichandran With the Union Budget for FY2025 just a week away, anticipation has built up around the changes that is would bring about. While expectations are rife, we believe that the Government of India (GoI) will likely avoid major changes from what was penciled into the Interim Budget that had been presented prior to the Parliamentary Elections. Nevertheless, the Budget is expected to provide support to the productive sectors of the economy, by finding a fine balance between supporting investment and consumption.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndian macros are undoubtedly looking healthy, which finds a mirror in the performance of our rated portfolio as well. For instance, in FY2024, ratings of 330 entities were upgraded and 156 ratings were downgraded, resulting in a credit ratio of 2.1x. In 3M FY2025, ratings of a further 62 entities were upgraded while those of 39 entities were downgraded, with the credit ratio remaining quite healthy at 1.6x.One of the factors that has underpinned the sustenance of the post-Covid economic growth momentum has been government capital spending. In our view, the government must continue to support infrastructure creation via the budget. In this regard, we believe that the hikes in the budgeted capex of the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways and the Ministry of Railways were quite lacklustre, at just 2-6%, in the Interim Budget. These should be raised to double digits, by redistributing the Rs 700 billion that were earmarked for ‘new schemes’ under the Finance Ministry. This would enable a higher spending on infrastructure, without impacting the government’s aggregate capex number of Rs 11.1 trillion for the fiscal.On the other hand, the common refrain is that the private sector capex cycle appears underwhelming on the whole, which gives rise to the market expectation of relief in corporate income tax; in our assessment, the GoI is unlikely to bring in drastic changes on this front. There are signs of a pick-up, albeit uneven, in private capex, in a variety of sectors such as cement, steel, automobiles, aviation, hotels, data centers etc.
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 12:58 PM IST with headline  Nobody expects RBI to be cheerleader, coordination with govt helped fast revival in economy: Guv Das is: 
 Nobody expects RBI to be cheerleader, coordination with govt helped fast revival in economy: Guv Das Governor Shaktikanta Das on Friday said the Reserve Bank's relations with the government have been "smooth" during his nearly six-year term, and credited the close coordination between the two for the quick revival of the economy after the pandemic.Speaking at an event organised by Financial Express here, the bureaucrat-turned-central banker said nobody has expected him to be a "cheerleader" for the government during his term.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"I am saying from my experience. Nobody expects RBI to be a cheerleader. I have had no such experience," he said, responding to a specific question about a lament made by one of his predecessors in a recent book.Asked if he is open for a new term at Mint Road, Das said he is very focused on the current assignment and does not think of anything outside that.Das said the RBI is optimistic that its estimate of 7.2 per cent growth for FY25 will be met, and added that with steady growth, the focus of the policy has to be "clearly and unambiguously" on inflation. The inflation elephant is taking pauses and grudgingly moving towards the forest or the 4 per cent target in an unidirectional way, he added.
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 12:34 PM IST with headline  Union Budget 2024 expected to focus on India’s manufacturing boom through tax incentives is: 
 The need of the hour now is to elevate India’s viability as the next manufacturing hub. By Namrata Arora, Manisha Jain, Jatin GargAs Budget 2024 looms, whispers of a transformative policy have been gaining momentum with continued impetus on Government of India’s missions of Make in India and Aatmanirbhar Bharat. These projects have had a multiplier effect on the economy - each new manufacturing unit creates a cascade of opportunities across the supply chain, from raw material suppliers to logistics and retail, which further results in creation of job opportunities, not just in manufacturing but in associated industries, helping to alleviate unemployment.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOver the past years, various measures have been undertaken to fulfill these missions in a phased manner, with one of the significant moves being the reduced rates of taxation for corporates (22% versus the erstwhile rate of 30% and 25%) and a further concessional rate of 15% for new manufacturing units with a sunset date of March 31, 2024. With Budget round the corner, anticipations are rife on the extension and relaxation in the concessional tax regimes.To set the context, section 115BAB of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (the Act) provides a tax rate of 15% (plus surcharge and health and education cess) on the total income of a domestic manufacturing company, subject to satisfaction of certain specified conditions. One of the pre-requisites to avail the beneficial rate of 15% inter-alia, is that the company should have been incorporated on or after October 1, 2019 and it should already have commenced manufacturing or production on or before March 31, 2024.Section 115BAB aims at incentivising domestic production which not only aids in augmenting India's economic resilience but also in building a self-reliant and sustainable economic framework. This has encouraged the establishment of new ventures, providing a significant uplift to the country's workforce and consequently, socioeconomic development. It aligns with the 'Make in India' campaign to establish India as a leading global manufacturing center and has helped in attracting start-ups to explore opportunities in the formalized sector. This has further bolstered innovation and expansion within the industry.
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 12:34 PM IST with headline  Boosting Agricultural Exports: Budgeting for infrastructure, high-value crops, and ag-tech is: 
 India stands as a global agricultural leader. By Anand Ramanathan Agriculture's share in India's economy has dropped below 15% due to the rise of the industrial and service sectors, yet its significance remains immense. With nearly three-quarters of Indian families relying on rural incomes, and the majority (some 770 million people or about 70 percent) of the nation’s poor living in rural areas, the agricultural sector is not just an economic pillar but a lifeline for millions.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndia stands as a global agricultural leader, being the top producer of pulses (27.67 MMT 28% of Global Production), spices (11.14 MMT), milk (213 MMT 22% of Global production), and having the largest cattle herd. It also holds the largest cultivation areas for wheat, rice, and cotton, and is the second-largest producer of rice, wheat, cotton, sugarcane, farmed fish, sheep and goat meat, fruit, vegetables, and tea. Despite these accolades India's food security hinges on boosting cereal crops, fruits, vegetables, and milk production to meet the demands of growing population across different income strata. Therefore, a swift evolution towards a productive, competitive, diversified, and sustainable agricultural sector is vital.However, while addressing domestic needs is essential, it is equally important for India to intensify its efforts on boosting agricultural exports. The global market, with its burgeoning demand for high-quality agricultural produce, offers a golden opportunity for India to establish itself as a leading agricultural exporter. This shift is not only economically advantageous but also essential to cater to the Indian diaspora settled abroad, who seek authentic Indian produce and products.As India prepares for its upcoming budget, a prime opportunity emerges to elevate its agricultural exports to new heights. India's share is about 2.4 per cent in global exports and the government wants to increase it to 4-5 per cent over the next few years. By focusing on enhancing post-harvest infrastructure, investing in high-value and climate-resilient crops, and utilizing cutting-edge ag-tech innovations, the budget can usher in a new era of agricultural prosperity.
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 09:20 AM IST with headline  Will Union Budget 2024 up the stakes in the global value chain gamble? is: 
 Representative image HighlightsPromoting domestic manufacturing will be high on the Budget agendaThe government aims to make India a global export hubGVCs are integral to making domestic manufacturing export-readyDespite initiatives, India’s GVC participation is lowBudget can introduce measures to lure GVC investmen
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 08:46 AM IST with headline  Union Budget 2024: The myth of central government neglect of social sectors is: 
 - Much is being made of the central government’s emphasis on capital spending and its lack of spending on social sector schemes. It has been argued that one of the reasons for the tepid consumption demand in the country is the lack of a government push to consumption, as it is focused on building infrastructure.(image) It is true that the central government’s priority has been to build infrastructure and it has succeeded admirably in this regard, especially i
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 09:21 AM IST with headline  Global Fund manager survey: The shape of things to come is: 
 HighlightsHigher inflation is no longer seen as the number one tail riskA net 68 percent of fund managers now believe the global economy is headed towards a soft landingTrade policy is the area most likely to be affected by a Trump win, followed by immigration and geopoliticsBofA says that "45% of the survey do not think AI is a bubble; but a rising 43% of investors do think AI is in a bubble”The BofA survey says, "W
 
The news published on the date July 18, 2024 07:35 PM IST with headline  Financial assets rose 23% during pandemic owing to asset price gains: RBI Bulletin is: 
 Asset prices contributed to some gains in household savings A quarter of increase in financial assets of households during the pandemic was due to rising asset prices, according to a paper published in the RBI’s July bulletin.“On a cumulative basis, the financial assets of households rose by Rs 123.2 lakh crore between the quarter-ended December 2019 and the quarter-ended March 2023; around 23 percent of this increase was due to asset price gains and the rest due to incremental financial savings,” the paper titled Estimating the Financial Wealth of Indian Households said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe authors also pointed to an increase in equity investments over the last decade.“Equity and investment funds of households increased more than 1.5 times from 2011-12 to 2022-23. Household debt to financial assets ratio has remained stable during the period,” the authors noted.The total financial assets of households had risen to Rs 363.8 lakh crore or 135 percent of GDP as of March 2023.
 
The news published on the date July 18, 2024 04:08 PM IST with headline  Why are Kerala, Andhra Pradesh vying for Karnataka firms? is: 
 Higher output of Karnataka firms, better employment Andhra Pradesh and Kerala were quick to roll out the red carpet as the government in neighbouring Karnataka faced backlash over a bill that proposes to reserve jobs for locals in the private sector.While the Siddaramaiah government on July 17 evening decided to put the bill on hold, a Moneycontrol analysis shows that Andhra and Kerala stand on gain in terms of productivity if firms relocate from Karnataka.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAnalysis of annual survey of industries numbers for 2021-22 shows that the value addition per firm in Karnataka was double that of Kerala and Andhra Pradesh.While Karnataka firms had an average net value added of Rs 9.28 crore per annum, Andhra’s value added per factory was just Rs 3.81 crore per annum, while that of Kerala was even lower at Rs 2.97 crore.Output per firm in Karnataka at Rs 52.8 crore was nearly 70 percent higher than Andhra Pradesh and more than double that of Kerala in 2021-22.
 
The news published on the date July 18, 2024 03:35 PM IST with headline  Federal Reserve’s critics on inflation should now champion July cut is: 
 Among the Fed’s top leaders, the goal of forward-looking monetary policy is uncontroversial. Back in 2021, legions of critics lambasted the Federal Reserve for failing to take proactive and forward-looking steps against the emerging inflation threat. Curiously, many of them have gone silent on the risk that the Fed might get caught flatfooted again, this time by failing to cut interest rates soon enough in the face of weaker inflation and a cooling labor market.Lawrence Summers, the former US Treasury Secretary and a paid Bloomberg TV contributor, was perhaps the most notable critic of the “behind the curve” Fed a few years back. As recently as a few months ago, he was still warning against rate cuts and floating the idea that the central bank’s next move could be a hike. Summers isn’t an island unto himself, however, as about a third of economists surveyed by Bloomberg saw one or no cuts this year.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdConsider the cross-section of monetary policy rules, which generate fed funds rate prescriptions based on standard economic variables. Just as they showed that the Fed was behind the curve in 2021 and 2022, four of the five common policy rules — including the classic 1993 Taylor Rule — now suggest policy rates below the current 5.25%-5.5% range. The core personal consumption expenditures deflator — the Fed’s preferred gauge — puts year-over-year inflation at just about 2.6%, less than half of the peak rate of 5.6% in February 2022. While that’s still technically above the Fed’s 2% target, the current policy stance implies a lot of medicine for what’s become a relatively mild ailment.Among the Fed’s top leaders, the goal of forward-looking monetary policy is uncontroversial. The question, however, is how one can put forward-looking policy into practice while also remaining beholden to backward-looking data. Here’s how Chair Jerome Powell tried to explain this dance at an Economic Club of Washington event, in conversation with Bloomberg host and Carlyle Co-Chairman David Rubenstein (emphasis mine):Rubenstein: The Fed has set a target for inflation of 2%. Now, can you clarify? Does that mean that the inflation rate has to be at 2% before you’re ready to move, if you are ready to move? Or does it have to be within sight? And what does it mean to be within sight?Powell: So, when we change interest rates, that tightens financial conditions and that, in turn, affects economic outcomes — you know, growth, labor markets and ultimately inflation, but with lags that can be long and variable, as Milton Friedman famously said. And the implication of that is that if you wait until inflation gets all the way down to 2%, you’ve probably waited too long. Because the tightening that you’re doing — the tightness that you have — is still having effects which will probably drive inflation below 2%. So we’ve been very clear that you wouldn’t wait for inflation to get all the way down to 2%. Our test has been for the past quite some time that we wanted to have greater confidence that inflation was moving sustainably down toward our 2% target, and what increases that confidence is more good inflation data. And lately we have been getting some of that.
 
The news published on the date July 18, 2024 03:10 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Karnataka’s risky experiment on job reservation  is: 
 If other states too followed Karnataka’s formula, we would be looking at nothing less than total chaos in the job market. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFirst things first.In the last two days, I saw a lot of anger on social media after a controversial Bill by the Karnataka state government ruffled feathers when it proposed mandatory reservation of up to 70 percent for locals in private jobs.Why would the state do such a thing to risk Bengaluru’s image as an emerging global tech-startup hub and deter fresh investments?Unsurprisingly, industry leaders and senior ministers were up in arms against the proposal from the word go. And, as expected, a day later the state government put the proposal on hold.
 
The news published on the date July 18, 2024 01:50 PM IST with headline  India targets $110 billion FDI a year to help boost economy is: 
 India targets $110 billion FDI a year to help boost economy India is aiming to boost annual foreign direct investment by more than 50% to help lift economic growth, according to a top official at the government’s investment promotion agency.“For the next seven years, our goal is to draw $110 billion per year which amounts roughly $1 trillion plus over the next 10 years,” Nivruti Rai, managing director of Invest India, said in an interview with Bloomberg TV’s Paul Allen on Thursday. “We have to work hard toward growing at a rate higher than 10%.”Story continues below AdvertisementIndia’s annual average FDI in the seven years through March 2023 amounted to $71 billion, according to figures from the investment agency, which is a joint venture between the Ministry of Commerce and private business chambers.Official data from the government show a decline in FDI into India since 2022, even though the country is positioning itself as an alternative manufacturing hub to China, with companies like Apple Inc. setting up factories in the country in recent years.Invest India has highlighted eight priority areas for investment: electronics manufacturing, automobiles, infrastructure, green energy, food processing, textiles, pharmaceuticals and foreign institutional investment. Rai believes these sectors will help India achieve economic growth of more than 10%.Commenting on recent news that Tesla Inc.’s investment in India has cooled, Rai said she was “not concerned” and that the trend is still for higher investment
 
The news published on the date July 18, 2024 01:46 PM IST with headline  Malaysia requests India to ease export curbs on some farm goods is: 
 Malaysia requests India to ease export curbs on some farm goods Malaysia has requested India to ease export curbs on some farm goods like rice and sugar, Malaysia's minister for plantation and commodities said on Thursday.India's abrupt export curbs on farm goods are bad for Malaysia, Johari Bin Abdul Ghani said on the sidelines of an industry conference in New Delhi
 
The news published on the date July 18, 2024 01:41 PM IST with headline  Fiscal deficit at 5% of GDP for FY25, nominal growth at 11%: MC Economists Poll is: 
 Fiscal deficit to be lower say economists The government is likely to record a lower fiscal deficit and a higher growth than what was estimated in the Interim Budget, as it retains its focus on fiscal prudence, economists said in a poll conducted by Moneycontrol.The median forecast of 16 economists pegged the fiscal deficit at 5 percent of the GDP, 10 basis points lower than the 5.1 percent target set in the Interim Budget. None of the economists polled by Moneycontrol expects a slippage on the fiscal front.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn the other hand, the economists noted that the output is likely to get a boost with the government projecting an 11 percent nominal growth, compared with 10.5 percent projected in the Interim Budget.IDFC First Bank and ANZ pegged the growth at 11.5 percent, higher than other forecasts in the poll.
 
The news published on the date July 18, 2024 01:28 PM IST with headline  India plans to ease rice export curbs as stocks surge to record is: 
 India plans to ease rice export curbs as stocks surge to record India is likely to cut the floor price for basmati rice exports and replace the 20% export tax on parboiled rice with a fixed duty on overseas shipments, government sources said, as rice inventories in the country jumped a record high.The world's biggest rice exporter imposed various curbs on exports in 2023 and continued them in 2024 in an effort to keep local prices in check ahead of the general elections held in April-May.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdNew Delhi is expected to lower the basmati rice's minimum export price (MEP) to $800-$850 a metric ton, down from $950 a ton, to boost shipments, said the sources, who didn't wish to be identified as they are not authorised to talk to media.Lowering the MEP would help India retain its market share against Pakistan, which exported a record amount of rice this year due to New Delhi's export curbs.India and Pakistan are the leading exporters of basmati rice. New Delhi exports more than 4 million metric tons of basmati - the premium long-grain variety famed for its aroma - to countries such as Iran, Iraq, Yemen, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and the United States.
 
The news published on the date July 18, 2024 12:59 PM IST with headline  Investors grapple with the Trump trade is: 
 As Trump’s economic policy platform becomes clearer and traders and investors view the ghastly attempt on his life as a boost to his chances of electoral success. Katie MartinIn markets, the Trump Trade is on. It is just a little lost and very messy.For months, the chance of Donald Trump finding his way back into the White House has been the biggest potential jolt to markets that no one wants to talk about. When asked about it, professional investors generally mumble something vague about taxes and spending. “Well the fiscal programmes are roughly the same as Joe Biden’s so we don’t see much impac
 
The news published on the date July 18, 2024 01:12 PM IST with headline  Karnataka govt will provide industry-ready skills for locals, no need for businesses to panic: IT minister Priyank Kharge is: 
 Karnataka's IT-BT Minister Priyanka Kharge assured businesses on July 18 that the state government is focused on providing industry-ready skills to locals, aiming to ease tensions amid debates over a job reservation bill.The state government was forced to put on hold the bill proposing job reservations for locals in the private sector on July 17 following industry backlash.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso, read: After backlash, Karnataka puts job quota-for-locals bill on holdSpeaking to Moneycontrol at the Vidhana Soudha on July 18, Kharge said: "The draft bill prepared by the labour department still has to go through inter-ministerial consultation, legal review, and stand the test of law.""The state government's vision is to ensure that we provide more job opportunities for locals and equip them with the best industry-ready skill sets so they are not only employed locally but also globally," said Kharge.
 
The news published on the date July 18, 2024 08:59 AM IST with headline  Union Budget 2024: Rural India needs policy support to become resilient is: 
 For this fiscal, the interim budget pegged 13.7% higher spending on these schemes to support rural employment and incomes Building a resilient rural economy is quintessential to India’s long-term growth because seven out of 10 citizens live there. The hinterland also accounts for 60% of private consumption, according to estimates using the National Sample Survey Office (NSSO) data. Agriculture remains the mainstay in this large swathe, even as other sources of employment have expanded over time.About 98 million, or 57% of rural households, are engaged in agriculture — 40% self-employed in cultivation, 14% in casual labou
 
The news published on the date July 18, 2024 08:15 AM IST with headline  India’s digital payments system needs simpler KYC process to reach newer heights is: 
 Digital payments in India are projected to double by 2030. India's digitalization journey has become a notable success, with the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) standing out globally as a model case study. The rise of digital payments in India, from $300 billion in 2018 to $3.6 trillion in 2024, with projections to double by 2030, demonstrates a significant transformation.Robust demographic expansion, improved economic conditions, widespread internet access, and strong government support for digital infrastructure have fuelled this growth in digital payments across the country. Along with UPI, other digital payment instruments such as cards and digital wallets have also gained traction, accounting for around 10% of current digital transaction values. This progress aligns with the Reserve Bank of India's goal to widely expand digital payments.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndia has established itself as a global leader in the digital payment sector, accounting for a significant percentage of worldwide transaction volumes. UPI's acceptance in several countries, with plans to expand further, underscores its international success. The decline in cash-based transactions to less than 60% highlights the widespread adoption of digital payments across India. UPI’s interoperability, ease of use, and real-time settlement have made it a preferred choice for a wide range of transactions, from peer-to-peer transfers to merchant payments.UPI transactions have experienced remarkable growth, surpassing 10 billion monthly transactions. Additionally, with countries like Singapore, the UAE, Mauritius, Oman, and Indonesia accepting UPI payments there has been a significant increase in cross-border transactions using the UPI method of payment.Transcending Demographic Categories
 
The news published on the date July 18, 2024 07:02 PM IST with headline  MC Exclusive: With an eye on state elections, kisan and mahila could be focus for Budget 2024 is: 
 Budget could see a focus on Kisan and Mahila The upcoming budget may see an enhanced focus on farmers and women, given the recent political context of the BJP losing its absolute majority in the general elections and upcoming assembly elections in a few states.Two people aware of the budget discussions told Moneycontrol that the annual payout to farmers under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi could increase to Rs 12,000 .Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdCurrently, an income support of Rs 6,000 is given per year in three equal instalments to all land holding farmers. The government could take this up to Rs 12,000 a year. Further, instead of quarterly payouts, a cash transfer of Rs 1,000 could be made every month.The budget could also announce a scheme under which Rs 1 lakh would be transferred to women below the poverty line.The Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, a rural housing scheme, has been a success story for the government. The Budget could see an enhanced focus on the scheme. As of June 12, 2024, 2.94 crore houses have been sanctioned and 2.62 crore houses have been completed.
 
The news published on the date July 17, 2024 07:44 PM IST with headline  US stocks mostly down amid talk of 'overbought' market is: 
 The Dow remained modestly positive, while both the S&P 500 and Nasdaq were firmly in the red Wall Street stocks mostly fell early Wednesday on weakness in Nvidia and other tech giants amid talk that markets are "overbought" after numerous records.The Dow remained modestly positive, while both the S&P 500 and Nasdaq were firmly in the red.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAbout 15 minutes into trading, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 0.1 percent at 40,980.17, edging higher from Tuesday's record close.The broad-based S&P 500 dropped 1.0 percent to 5,612.86, while the tech-rich Nasdaq Composite Index fell 1.8 percent to 18,171.13."The contention that the broader market is overbought on a short-term basis and due for a pullback is valid in its own right, yet it has been helped along this morning by some other news," said Briefing.com analyst Patrick O'Hare.O'Hare said investors were unnerved by comments from Donald Trump in a published interview that Taiwan "should pay" the United States for defense.Data showed that US industrial production cooled in June but still exceeded analyst expectations, with manufacturing and utilities output both rising.Among individual companies, Johnson & Johnson rose 2.0 percent after reporting better than expected profits on a 4.3 percent increase in sales.Story continues below AdvertisementThe drug and medical device company expressed confidence in its pipeline as it pursues regulatory approval of new products
 
The news published on the date July 17, 2024 06:47 PM IST with headline  Rising US rate cut optimism steers gold to all-time high is: 
 Rising US rate cut optimism steers gold to all-time high Gold prices hit a record high on Wednesday, as comments from Federal Reserve officials boosted expectations of a September interest rate cut in the U.S.Spot gold was up 0.2% at $2,473.89 per ounce as of 1002 GMT, after hitting an all-time high of $2,482.29 earlier in the session. U.S. gold futures gained 0.4% to $2,478.50.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"It seems like it's evident that the Federal Reserve is going to cut rates in September and that, coupled with the concept of the de-dollarization of how central banks have been buying more gold versus the U.S. Treasury yields, are currently the catalyst that is driving gold to these highs" said Alex Ebkarian, chief operating officer at Allegiance Gold.Fed Chair Jerome Powell said on Monday recent inflation readings "add somewhat to confidence" that the pace of price increases is returning to the central bank's target in a sustainable fashion.Fed's Adriana Kugler and John Williams also expressed cautious optimism that inflation is returning to its 2% target.
 
The news published on the date July 17, 2024 06:09 PM IST with headline  In Charts: India's economy poised for robust growth ahead of Union Budget
 
The news published on the date July 17, 2024 04:03 PM IST with headline  Mango tastes sour this summer as wholesale price sizzles at Rs 48.5 a kg, up 20.7% is: 
 Mango inflation inches up The king of fruits is not so aam this summer, with the prices being considerably hotter than last year. Mango inflation stood a high 37 percent in June, as against 25 percent a month back.The summer fruit was trading at a 12 percent premium of Rs 39.6 per kg in the wholesale market in the first two weeks of July, compared with Rs 35.4 per kg previous year.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBut it is not just mango, other summer fruits are also showing signs of high inflation.Musk melon or kharbooja has seen prices trend up an average 15.8 percent since the start of the fiscal, lychee inflation almost tripled in June to 15.2 percent from 4.6 percent.
 
The news published on the date July 17, 2024 02:18 PM IST with headline  India's food subsidies to cost 11% more than initial plan is: 
 India's food subsidies to cost 11% more than initial plan India is likely to spend 2.25 trillion rupees ($11.97 billion) on food subsidies this financial year, four government sources said, up around 11% from the interim budget estimate in February due to higher spending on the support price for farmers.The country's combined food and fertiliser bill is expected to reach 3.88 trillion rupees, up 5% rise from the estimate in the interim budget unveiled before the election.Story continues below AdvertisementInterim budget estimates will be replaced by a new budget from Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government that will be presented on July 23.Food and fertiliser subsidies in the interim budget accounted for about 8% of India's total spending of 47.66 trillion rupees during the fiscal year that ends on March 31, 2025.In the interim budget, the food subsidy bill was estimated at 2.05 trillion rupees, two of the sources said.The increase since then is largely due to a rise in the price at which the government buys rice and wheat from domestic farmers, one of the sources said.Meanwhile, the government is likely to stick to its previous estimate of 1.64 trillion rupees for the fertiliser subsidy, two of the sources said.The ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers did not immediately reply to requests for comment
 
The news published on the date July 17, 2024 01:50 PM IST with headline  Karnataka’s domicile-based reservation is a bad idea that will fail in court is: 
 Regardless of the political party in power, expanding the scope of reservation has become a preferred option to bridge the gap between youth aspirations and the reality of the job market Karnataka’s Congress government is set to join the bandwagon of administrations which are using reservation as a tool to deal with an unsatisfactory job market for the young. The state cabinet has cleared a bill which aims to reserve 50 percent of jobs in a managerial role and 70 percent in non-managerial roles for people domiciled in the state for 15 years. In addition, there’s a condition that they have to display the prescribed proficiency in Kannada.Reports indicate that the bill will be tabled in the state assembly next week.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe proposal has been criticised by prominent industry leaders because it will undermine the economic vibrancy of one of India’s most important growth engines.Also Read: Junk this bill: Industry leaders slam Karnataka's job quota for localsKarnataka job reservation: Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw calls for exemption of 'highly-skilled' labour
 
The news published on the date July 17, 2024 01:06 PM IST with headline  Karnataka's job quota for locals: Industries minister says 'everyone's interests will be safeguarded' is: 
 cKarnataka Commerce & Industries Minister MB Patil. Karnataka's move to reserve jobs for locals in the private sector has sparked division among its ministers, with State Commerce & Industries Minister MB Patil asserting the state's commitment in safeguarding everyone's interest."Karnataka is a progressive state, and we cannot afford to lose in this once-in-a-century race of industrialisation. We will make sure that everyone's interests are safeguarded. The Industries are assured that they need not have any fear or apprehensions and can rest assured," Patil said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn July 15, the Karnataka cabinet approved the draft State Employment of Local Candidates in the Industries, Factories and Other Establishments Bill, 2024, mandating 50 percent of management jobs and 70 percent of non-management roles to be reserved for local candidates (Kannadigas).Also read: Junk this bill: Industry leaders slam Karnataka's job quota for localsThe state cabinet also approved a 100 percent quota for Kannadigas in Group C and Group D jobs (blue-collar workers) in the private sector.
 
The news published on the date July 17, 2024 12:40 PM IST with headline  Junk this bill: Industry leaders slam Karnataka's job quota for locals is: 
 Many industry leaders said the state government's decision will impact business activities in the state and may even force some to relocate to other states. File photo The Karnataka government's move to reserve jobs in the private sector for locals has faced sharp criticism from industry leaders, who argue that the measure will deter talent and investment from flowing into the state.On July 15, the Karnataka cabinet approved a draft bill mandating that 50 percent of management jobs and 70 percent of non-management roles be reserved for locals in the private sector. Additionally, the state government endorsed a 100% quota for Kannadigas in Group C and Group D jobs (blue-collar workers) in the private sector.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMany industry leaders said the state government's decision will impact business activities in the state and may even force some to relocate to other states.Also, read: Karnataka cabinet approves draft bill mandating 50% reservation for locals in management jobs, 70% in non-management categoriesKiran Mazumdar-Shaw, executive chairperson of Biocon Limited wrote on X: "As a tech hub we need skilled talent and whilst the aim is to provide jobs for locals, we must not affect our leading position in technology by this move. There must be caveats that exempt highly skilled recruitment from this policy”.
 
The news published on the date July 17, 2024 11:30 AM IST with headline  ADB keeps 7% growth forecast unchanged for Indian economy in FY25 is: 
 ADB raises growth Asian Development Bank kept India’s FY25 growth forecast unchanged at 7 percent from its April outlook, according to its latest report released on July 17.The Asian lender projected the economy to grow faster at 7.2 percent in FY26.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“After muted growth in FY24, a rebound in agriculture is expected given the above-normal monsoon projections. This is notwithstanding the slower advance of the monsoon in June,” ADB noted.It further pointed out that investment demand continues to be strong, buoyed by private investments.
 
The news published on the date July 17, 2024 09:47 AM IST with headline  Union Budget 2024: The four themes of growth is: 
 Four priorities for Budget 2024-25. Strong growth momentum, healthy external buffers and strong balance sheets of corporates and banks provide a favourable backdrop to the full Union Budget for this fiscal.That said, stubborn food inflation, weak consumption demand and tepid private investments call for remedial measures. It also needs to be kept in mind that one quarter of the fiscal year is over and budgetary measures will at best influence the performance of the second half of the current fiscal.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWe see four priorities this time:Fiscal consolidation: Despite various imperatives, the government should not compromise on fiscal consolidation which has been its the hall mark. Fortunately, higher-than-expected dividend of Rs 2.1 lakh crores from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will allow the government to undertake additional expenditure, while sticking to the fiscal consolidation path laid out in the interim budget. This will keep the cost of borrowing for the government under check and help in bringing down the debt ratio will be in sync with monetary policy stance. It is also important to note that the inclusion of India in global bond indices subjects it to more fiscal scrutiny.Weak consumption: Private consumption demand growth slowed to a two-decade low of 4% (excluding the pandemic year) in fiscal 2024. Some of the transitory factors that caused it are likely to reverse. If agriculture does well and food inflation comes down as is expected with prediction of normal monsoons this year, rural consumption demand will get a leg up. Urban demand may soften due to higher interest rates and slowing of services as the pent- up demand gets exhausted. The RBI’s consumer confidence survey, too, reflects weakening consumer sentiment. The budget could give some tax relief to the middle class which largely benefits the urbanites and support employment and income augmenting like rural infrastructure and housing development in rural areas.
 
The news published on the date July 16, 2024 10:16 PM IST with headline  Gold sprints to all-time high as Fed rate-cut hopes boost demand is: 
 Gold sprints to all-time high as Fed rate-cut hopes boost demand Gold prices jumped more than 1% to a record high on Tuesday, as investors flocked to the safe-haven asset after comments from Federal Reserve officials cemented expectations of a U.S. interest rate cut in September.Spot gold gained 1.6% to $2,460.99 per ounce by 11:32 a.m. ET (1532 GMT), while U.S. gold futures for August delivery rose 1.5% to $2,465.80 per ounce.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Gold surges to new all-time highs despite stronger-than-expected core retail sales data, encouraged by Powell indicating yesterday that the Fed was growing more confident that inflation was back on its way to target," said Tai Wong, a New York-based independent metals trader."This essentially etches a September cut in stone barring an inflation calamity in the coming weeks."Fed Chair Jerome Powell on Monday said recent inflation data bolstered policymakers' confidence that price pressures are on a sustainable path to remain low, reassuring markets that the U.S. rate cut is on the cards in September.
 
The news published on the date July 16, 2024 07:10 PM IST with headline  IMF keeps global growth forecast unchanged at 3.2% for 2024 is: 
 Global growth steady at 3.2% The International Monetary Fund, on July 16, predicted the global economy to register 3.2 percent growth in 2024, unchanged from April.The multilateral institution predicted a stable path to growth, with 2025 expected numbers to be a tad higher at 3.3 percent in 2025.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“The forecast for growth in emerging market and developing economies is revised upward; the projected increase is powered by stronger activity in Asia, particularly China and India,” it said.India’s FY25 growth forecast has been revised upwards to 7 percent from 6.8 percent projected in April, while China's growth estimate has been revised upward to 5 percent from 4.6 percent for 2024.The fund revised the US and Japan forecast downwards. The US economy is now expected to grow 2.6 percent from 2.7 percent predicted earlier, whereas Japanese economy is expected to grow at 0.7 percent—0.2 percentage points lower.
 
The news published on the date July 16, 2024 10:34 PM IST with headline  IMF raises India’s FY25 growth forecast to 7% from 6.8% is: 
 IMF India forecast The International Monetary Fund raised India’s growth forecast for FY25 to 7 percent from 6.8 percent projected in April, according to its World Economic Outlook released on July 16."The forecast for growth in India has also been revised upward, to 7 percent, this year, with the change reflecting carryover from upwardrevisions to growth in 2023 and improved prospects for private consumption, particularly in rural areas," the fund noted.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe global financial institution expects the economy to grow 6.5 percent in FY26—unchanged from April.In June, the Reserve Bank of India had revised India’s growth forecast upward to 7.2 from 7 percent earlier.
 
The news published on the date July 16, 2024 06:34 PM IST with headline  US retail sales unchanged in June, beating forecasts for slight drop is: 
 US retail sales unchanged in June, beating forecasts for slight drop U.S. retail sales were unchanged in June and the underlying trend was strong, which could boost economic growth estimates for the second quarter.The flat reading in retail sales last month followed an upwardly revised 0.3% gain in May, the Commerce Department's Census Bureau said on Tuesday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEconomists polled by Reuters had forecast retail sales, which are mostly goods and are not adjusted for inflation, falling 0.3% after a previously reported 0.1% gain in May.Still, the outlook for sales is unfavorable.Households are becoming more price sensitive and focusing on basic needs, evident in earnings reports from major retailers and manufacturers.
 
The news published on the date July 16, 2024 06:19 PM IST with headline  Budget 2024: Can FM Sitharaman Walk The Tightrope To Strike A Balance Between Populism & Prudence?
 
The news published on the date July 16, 2024 05:34 PM IST with headline  Indian bonds in demand as global stock investors seek collateral is: 
 Indian bonds in demand as global stock investors seek collateral India’s sovereign bond market is attracting foreign equity investors, who are using the securities as collateral for trade margin requirements.The inclusion of the nation’s government debt in JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s emerging- market bond index last month has enhanced their acceptance as collateral. This development is appealing to overseas investors, as they can now earn interest on their bond holdings, unlike with traditional cash or cash-equivalent margin postings.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“These investors have bought front-end government securities with 1-2 year maturities,” said Vikas Jain, head of India fixed income, currencies and commodities trading at Bank of America Corp. “In this bucket, we’ve seen flows of $1.5 billion,” since the announcement of India’s inclusion in September, he said.A combination of high yield, a stable currency and the possibility of capital appreciation has created a new demand segment for Indian government securities. The nation’s sovereign debt has returned 5.7% so far in 2024, versus a 2% gain in Indonesian local currency bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.“Better inflation data should allow the Reserve Bank of India to ease monetary policy while expectations for the upcoming budget are benign in terms of the fiscal deficit,” increasing the appeal of local bonds, said Rajeev De Mello, global asset portfolio manager at Gama Asset Management SA.
 
The news published on the date July 16, 2024 05:13 PM IST with headline  Morgan Stanley's Q2 profit jumps as investment banking recovers is: 
 Morgan Stanley's Q2 profit jumps as investment banking recovers Morgan Stanley's profit rose in the second quarter as investment banking activity rebounded.Its net income rose to $3.1 billion, or $1.82 per share, in the three months ended June 30, the bank said on Tuesday. That compares with $2.2 billion, or $1.24 per share, a year earlier.Story continues below AdvertisementAn improving economic outlook, expectations of U.S. interest rate cuts and surging equity markets have spurred corporate executives to carry out buyouts, debt sales and stock offerings after a nearly two-year dry spell for Wall Street.Global investment banking revenues surged 17% in the first half to $41.6 billion, according to data from Dealogic.Morgan Stanley's investment banking revenue surged 51% to $1.62 billion in the second quarter.Rival Goldman Sachs on Monday reported a 17% increase in investment banking revenue. On Friday, JPMorgan Chase reported a 46% gain in investment banking revenue, while Citi's fees from investment banking jumped 60%
 
The news published on the date July 16, 2024 04:58 PM IST with headline  How much the Federal Reserve cuts interest rates will depend on housing market is: 
 The Fed now needs to support the labor market, and that means treating housing as an industry to boost rather than suppress. It’s been clear since the fall of 2022 that the housing market needed lower interest rates to fix many of its problems including a lack of affordability for buyers, the mortgage rate lock-in dynamic for homeowners, and reduced activity for companies ranging from Home Depot Inc and Lowe’s Cos to suppliers of building materials.But the Federal Reserve was more focused on containing inflation than helping the housing market. No more. Economic data over the past few months have shifted policymakers’ priorities, with investors expecting the first of several interest rate cuts in September. The Fed now needs to support the labor market, and that means treating housing as an industry to boost rather than suppress, and using its health to gauge whether monetary policy has been eased enough to hold the economy in balance.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIt’s not that the labor market is an immediate problem. What’s concerning is its direction. The unemployment rate has risen for three consecutive months — the first time that’s happened in eight years — and at 4.1% stands around the Fed's longer-term forecast. If it was likely to stay at 4.1%, the Fed could have confidence that the economy was in balance, but all signs point to a continuing deterioration — something Chair Jerome Powell doesn’t want to see.Worries about a recession in 2023 and sluggish demand this year have made businesses reluctant to add workers even as the labour force continues to grow. The goal of monetary policy should now be to change all this — lower interest rates will boost demand and, in turn, spur hiring, consumer confidence and spending.All this brings us back to the housing market, the most obvious place for lower borrowing costs to work their magic. Existing home sales are running at a rate that’s 25% below what should be considered normal; owners are sitting on record levels of home equity that they won’t access until rates are lower; and housing-related industries ranging from remodeling to furniture to freight have been in downturns since 2022.
 
The news published on the date July 16, 2024 04:29 PM IST with headline  Rupee rises 3 paise to close at 83.58 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee rises 3 paise to close at 83.58 against US dollar The rupee consolidated in a narrow range and settled for the day 3 paise higher at 83.58 (provisional) against the US dollar on Tuesday, on firm domestic markets and sustained inflow of foreign capital.Forex traders said a decline in crude oil prices favoured the rupee, while a strong US dollar capped sharp gains.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 83.59, and touched an intraday high of 83.53 and a low of 83.60 against the dollar during the trading session.It finally settled at 83.58 (provisional) against the American currency, registering a gain of 3 paise from its previous close.On Monday, the rupee depreciated 10 paise to 83.61 against the US dollar.
 
The news published on the date July 16, 2024 08:04 PM IST with headline  Why China's slowdown is not India's headache? is: 
 China growth slowdown to have marginal impact on growth The Chinese economy is likely to pull down global growth further, as it struggles to reach its 5 percent target for 2024, but the impact on India may be limited, economists told Moneycontrol, as they noted that lower commodity prices could help curb the downside.The Chinese economy grew 4.7 percent in the second quarter of 2024, its slowest pace since January-March 2023. The economy had expanded 5.3 percent in the first quarter of the year, down from its heady 7 percent growth days between 2014 and 2018.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“Global growth will be affected by China slowdown as it will affect trade. India not to be affected much as we are more of domestic economy,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Bank of Baroda.The Chinese government is targeting a 5 percent growth for 2024, which experts point that the economy is likely to miss.
 
The news published on the date July 16, 2024 02:54 PM IST with headline  Revival in rural economy still a quarter away; monsoon, inflation, budget to play key roles: Experts is: 
 Monsoon and lower inflation key for pick up India's rural economy will need another quarter to rebound, economists told Moneycontrol, as they noted that the consumer goods growth seen in May was temporary.“The Q3 will be indicative of full revival, if at all,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at Bank of Baroda.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdConsumer durables production, an indicator of rural demand, increased to 12.3 percent in May from 10 percent a month back, according to data released on July 12.But economists warn against reading too much into the data.
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 06:27 PM IST with headline  Govt plans to delink state and central premium contributions from crop insurance claims is: 
 Four crore farmers were covered under the crop insurance (2023-24), which is the highest ever. The government is working on delinking the premium contribution by the central government and states under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) and has directed the insurance companies to issue the policy and process at least 70 percent of the claim even if there is a delay in receiving the states' contribution of the premium, an official said.The move is aimed to address the late disbursement of claims to farmers under PMFBY.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“The government is trying to desegregate the farmer, state and Centre’s share of premium under PMFBY. The policy is not issued till the state and Centre’s share of the premium gets credited to the insurance company. Eligibility of claim arises only after that. The government is thus delinking the Centre and states’ share of the premium,” the official told Moneycontrol.The premium splitThe premium for the scheme is heavily subsidised, with the central and state governments sharing the major portion of the premium burden. The subsidy ratio is typically 50:50 between the central and state governments. For North Eastern and Himalayan states, the ratio is 90:10. Farmers pay a nominal premium rate under the scheme – 2 percent for Kharif crops, 1.5 percent for Rabi crops and 5 percent for commercial and horticultural crops.
 
The news published on the date July 16, 2024 01:07 PM IST with headline  Defence ministry notifies 5th indigenisation list with 346 components for DPSUs is: 
 Items in the indigenization list can only be procured from the Indian Industry based on the timelines provided by the ministry Union ministry of defence on July 16 issued its fifth indigenisation list consisting 346 items for the defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs), the ministry said in a statement.The list includes strategically-important line replacement units/systems/ sub-systems/assemblies/sub-assemblies/spares & components and raw materials, with import substitution value worth Rs 1,048 crore, according to the ministry.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdItems in the indigenization list can only be procured from the Indian Industry based on the timelines provided by the ministry.The items on the list will be undertaken by DPSUs for indigenization via various various routes including ‘Make’ procedure or in-house development involving the industry, including MSMEs.“This will provide impetus to the growth in economy, enhanced investment in defence and lead to reduced import dependence. In addition, this will augment the design capabilities of domestic defence Industry due to the involvement of academia and research institutions,” the ministry said.
 
The news published on the date July 16, 2024 12:42 PM IST with headline  What can Union Budget 2024 deliver to excite markets further? is: 
 Budget Highlights - Quarterly performance largely backed by improved realisations - Medium-term triggers China plus and protectionist measures for tyre industry - Valuations not inexpensive; but improved medium-term outlook HighlightsSharp upswing in the markets post electionsBudget the first true account of government’s vision amid coalition politics pressureMarkets expect focus on capex/manufacturing to continue while not ignoring consumptionSticking to fiscal consolidation may not be a tall ask amid the windfall from the RBI and tax buoyanc
 
The news published on the date July 16, 2024 09:14 AM IST with headline  Will the hype and hoopla over AI spending finally pay off? is: 
 Representative image HighlightsGoldman Sachs report runs a reality check on AI spendingSome experts see only limited gains, while others are more optimisticThe report concludes with a positive note on AI spendingIndia needs to take note of the Goldman report as it chases the AI dreamSince India’s AI readiness needs to improve, it has to be carefulIndia needs to be judicious with AI spending because of its disruptive powe
 
The news published on the date July 16, 2024 11:18 AM IST with headline  69% CEOs say govt should focus on tax simplification, energy reforms under Modi 3.0: MC Survey is: 
 The Modi 3.0 is likely to continue with the transformational reforms with increased focus on capex and tax simplifications. The Modi 3.0 administration is likely to continue with transformational reforms, with an increased focus on capex, tax simplifications, revenue augmentation, governance and energy, 69 percent of CEOs said in the MC-Deloitte CEO Survey.The survey asked 78 CEOs across industries for their assessment of the reform agenda of the newly elected government.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhile a majority of the CEOs said that the government will continue its focus on capital expenditure and energy reforms, 14 percent said that the government may opt for more populist measures in terms of subsidies, cash transfers and welfare programmes, with reduced focus on capex and infrastructure spending.Do Not Miss | Budget ki baat: Raamdeo Agarwal, Vijay Kedia and Samir Arora express their hopes and prayersAnother 13 percent said that the pace of overall economic reforms is likely to slow down.
 
The news published on the date July 16, 2024 08:19 AM IST with headline  Budget Snapshot: The post COVID bump-up in Indian Railways’ revenues is: 
 Indian Railways Revenues at Indian Railways accelerated after the COVID pandemic. Total traffic revenues increased by 8.1 percent per annum on average in the five years to FY24, compared to 6.4 percent average annual expansion in FY14-FY19. Revenues gathered pace as Indian Railways ferried more goods. (image) Indian Railways revenueFreight traffic in volume terms increased by 5.3 percent in FY19-FY24 compared to 3.1 percent in the earlier five years. Passenger traffic slumped during COVID an
 
The news published on the date July 15, 2024 10:06 PM IST with headline  World Youth Skills Day: How is India placed with over 50% of population below 25? is: 
 According to the United Nations, the number of young people aged 15-24 globally comprises 1.2 billion individuals Skilling has become a buzzword in today’s rapidly evolving world. Continuous upskilling is crucial for professionals to remain relevant in a dynamic job market.Instituted in 2014 by the United Nations General Assembly with the aim of equipping young people with skills for employment, entrepreneurship and decent work and celebrated on July 15 every year, this year’s theme is ‘Youth Skills for Peace & Development’.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAccording to the United Nations, the number of young people aged 15-24 globally comprises 1.2 billion individuals. This demographic is projected to rise to 1.3 billion by 2030, representing 16 percent of the world's population. India occupies a unique position, with over 50 percent of the total population below 25 years of age. However, recent data from the National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) reveals skill gaps in high-demand sectors like IT, healthcare, manufacturing, agriculture, and renewable energy, underscoring a critical need to skill, up-skill, and right-skill the country’s youth.So, how are corporate houses looking to address this important issue?“At HDFC Bank, we believe that empowering our youth with the right skills is crucial for the socio-economic development of our nation. Our Parivartan training programmes are designed not only to provide vocational skills linked with market demands, but also to instil confidence and ambition in young minds. By collaborating with esteemed partners and focusing on sectors with high growth potential, we are committed to bridging the skills gap and creating a robust and inclusive workforce for the future. Our mission is to ensure that every young individual we reach has the opportunity to thrive and contribute to India's dynamic economy,” said Nusrat Pathan, Head of CSR at HDFC Bank.
 
The news published on the date July 15, 2024 08:52 PM IST with headline  India implements uniform 5% tax for all aircraft, aircraft engine parts is: 
 A model of the Airbus A220-300 aircraft is seen at a media event at Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi India will tax all imports of aircraft components and aircraft engine parts at 5%, the civil aviation minister said on Monday, unifying the tax rate which earlier varied between 5% and 28%.The uniform rate, effective from Monday itself, was recommended by India's Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council in June and will apply to imports of "parts, components, testing equipment, tools and tool-kits of aircrafts".Story continues below AdvertisementIt was deemed necessary because of "challenges" created by varying tax rates and will be a boost for local maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) businesses, Civil Aviation Minister Kinijrapu Rammohan Naidu said, at a time when Indian airlines have placed record orders for jets."This new policy eliminates... disparities, simplifies the tax structure, and fosters growth in the MRO sector," the minister said.India is among the fastest growing major aviation markets, with an aircraft fleet that is expected to increase from the current 700 to over 1,500 by 2030
 
The news published on the date July 15, 2024 05:44 PM IST with headline  Inflation hurt poorer states more than rich ones post pandemic is: 
 India's inflation hurt poorer states more India’s poorer states have borne the brunt of inflation more than richer ones post pandemic, according to a Moneycontrol analysis.At 5.9 percent, average inflation in the five poorest states in the country—Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand— between January 2022 and June 2024 was higher than the five richest states in per capita terms.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTelangana, Delhi, Haryana, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, which count as richest large economies of India, had a lower inflation of 5.78 percent during this period.This marks a complete reversal from years leading up to the pandemic when poorer states had lower inflation levels than rich ones.A Moneycontrol analysis shows that inflation has galloped faster for poorer states compared with the rich.
 
The news published on the date July 15, 2024 05:29 PM IST with headline  Cauvery Water Dispute: Karnataka Decides to Release 8000 Cusecs to Tamil Nadu in All Party Meet
 
The news published on the date July 15, 2024 04:14 PM IST with headline  As iconic cities tackle overtourism with travel restrictions, it is time for India to step up is: 
 Vijay Vilas Palace of Mandvi, Gujarat. (Photo: Gujarat Tourism) In Barcelona, local residents have been protesting against overtourism by spraying tourists with water. Similar protests have been staged in other parts of Spain, such as Malaga and the Canary Islands. Protests have sprung up in Sicily, Italy; Santorini, Greece; Dubrovnik, Croatia; and Bali, Indonesia. The authorities have levied taxes on tourists to disincentivize the hordes of visitors to Venice and Mount Fuji in Japan.New York, Paris, Vienna, Rome, Amsterdam, Penang, and Hawaii have imposed restrictions on Airbnb and similar short-stay arrangements outside hotels, jacking up the cost of short-duration stay. This is, in part, to protect the local hotel industry from competition, and, in part, to reduce the number of tourists descending on these towns and making rentals more expensive for local residents.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOpportunity for India to Make Tourism GainsAs many parts of the world turn their back on tourists and tourism, an opportunity opens up in India to embrace more tourists, tens of millions more of them, and generate diverse kinds of jobs in India in providing accommodation and food, in producing and selling things that tourists buy, in ferrying tourists around the country, in orgainising their visits to tourist attractions.India gets around 18 million tourists to traipse across its vast expanse of nearly 3.3 million sq km, and interact with its 1.4 billion people. In contrast, Croatia, with a population as large as that of a minor suburb of Delhi or Mumbai, and an area that is less than 2 per cent of India’s, gets more than 21 million visitors (visitor numbers from Index Mundi). Even Saudi Arabia ranks higher than India in terms of visitor arrivals, thanks to the pilgrimage of Haj. India ranks 14th in the world in terms of tourist numbers. France, the world leader in attracting tourists, gets 117 million visitors, six and a half times as many as those who come to India.
 
The news published on the date July 15, 2024 04:49 PM IST with headline  India's merchandise trade deficit narrows to $20.98 billion in June is: 
 The commerce ministry revealed India's trade deficit figure for June on July 15 India's merchandise trade deficit narrowed to $20.98 billion in June as against $23.78 billion a month back, thanks to a larger fall in imports, the Commerce Ministry said on July 15.While exports fell 7.7 percent from May to $35.20 billion in June, imports declined at a faster clip of 9.25 percent to $56.18 billion.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn a year-on-year basis, goods exports rose 2.6 percent in June, while imports were up by nearly 5 percent. As a result, the goods trade gap was wider last month versus in June 2023 at $19.19 billion.Commerce Secretary Sunil Barthwal said on July 15 that the government is focusing on sectors such as engineering goods, electronics, pharmaceuticals, and textiles in a bid to drastically improve India's export market share."As predicted, if inflation goes down globally and growth sustains across the world then trade should hold up as well," Barthwal added.
 
The news published on the date July 15, 2024 06:12 PM IST with headline  Wholesale inflation rises to 16-month high of 3.4% in June is: 
 wholesale inflation rises in June Wholesale inflation rose to a 16-month high of 3.4 percent in June as against 2.6 percent in the previous month, as food and manufactured products inflation rose further, according to data released by the government on July 15."The jump in the WPI inflation to 3.4% in June 2024 was broad-based, and along expected lines, displaying the third consecutive month of a sizeable sequential step up," said Aditi Nayar, chief economist, Icra.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSequentially, wholesale prices were up 0.4 percent from May, as food index rose 2.5 percent and manufactured products rose 0.14 percent over the previous month.Wholesale food inflation was up 8.7 percent compared with 7.4 percent in the previous month—a 20-month high.
 
The news published on the date July 15, 2024 11:55 AM IST with headline  Budget 2024 to backstop an already compelling story, says Radhika Rao of DBS is: 
 Union Budget 2024 By Radhika Rao, Executive Director and Senior Economist, DBS BankAs we approach the final budget for FY25, three developments are shaping market expectations.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFirstly, the government has accumulated a significant revenue buffer, bolstered by robust direct and indirect tax collections. Additionally, a record-high surplus transfer from the RBI amounting to Rs 2.1 lakh crore (~0.6% of GDP) for FY24, far exceeding last year's Rs 87,400 crore and the budgeted Rs 85,000 crore, adds to this fiscal cushion.This unexpected windfall provides an opportunity for the government to potentially reduce the full-year deficit from the targeted -5.1% of GDP for FY24. However, its impact will depend on whether this surplus is primarily used to strengthen fiscal consolidation or to cover increased spending commitments and any shortfall in divestment proceeds.Second, there were the election results. The ruling BJP National Democratic Alliance (NDA) coalition returned for a third successive term, but with a narrower margin of win than the exit polls had suggested. This has increased the focus on the upcoming Budget, especially whether it would contain more demand-accretive measures to support households’ consumption and purchasing power besides a focus on the agricultural sector.
 
The news published on the date July 15, 2024 01:47 PM IST with headline  Will the upcoming Union Budget 2024 bring cheer to the bond markets? is: 
 Budget 2024: Real estate sector demands industry status, tax rebate on housing loan interest from the budget The current calendar year (CY2024) is a landmark for Indian bond markets.After a long wait, the Indian Government Bonds got included in the global bond index -- JP Morgan Government Bond Index-Emerging Markets (GBI-EM) -- from June- end.In addition to the index inclusion, the government unleashed the “long bond” trade by adhering to the fiscal consolidation path in the interim Union Budget that was presented in February 2024.No wonder, India's 10-year government bond (G-Sec) has rallied year-to-date (YTD). G-Se
 
The news published on the date July 15, 2024 09:01 AM IST with headline  The Eastern Window: NATO seeks to expand its ambit to contain China, fully isolate Russia is: 
 - HighlightsNATO has warned China against supporting Russia in the Ukraine warIt is worried because the Russian economy appears intact after two years of economic sanctionsThe U.S. ambassador to India recently suggested that India could risk its relationship with the U.S. by trading with RussiaMany Western leaders fear that Donald Trump might get elected, and withdraw U.S. support to Ukrain
 
The news published on the date July 15, 2024 08:46 AM IST with headline  Will the Third Plenum turn things around for China? is: 
 Faced with the challenge from the US, Xi Jinping has emphasised national security and investment in science and technology to get around the sanctions The Third Plenum of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China will be held this week, from 15-18 July. It’s a Central Committee meeting held once every five years that has assumed special significance over the years, ever since Deng Xiao Ping first announced reform and opening up of the Chinese economy in one such session in 1978. Similarly, the third plenum chaired by Xi Jinping in 2013 led to many changes in policy.This time
 
The news published on the date July 13, 2024 10:28 AM IST with headline  India’s net direct tax collection jumps over 19% till July 11 is: 
 Common examples of direct taxes are income tax, property tax, corporate tax India's net direct tax collections grew 19.54 percent to Rs 5.74 lakh crore till July 11 in the current financial year as compared to Rs 4.80 lakh crore in FY24 in the corresponding period, income tax department said.The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said net direct tax collection of Rs 5.74 lakh crore (as of July 11) includes Corporation Tax (CIT) at Rs 2.1 lakh crore (net of refund) and Personal Income Tax (PIT) at Rs 3.46 lakh crore and Securities Transaction Tax (STT) at Rs 16,634 crore (net of refund).Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe government has issued direct tax refunds of Rs 70,902 crore till July 11 in 2024-25, which is an increase of 64.49 percent compared to Rs 43,105 crore it issued in the corresponding period in 2023-24.The government had in the revised estimates for direct tax collection pegged the receipts for the full fiscal (April-March) at Rs 21.99 lakh crore.Healthy tax collection is significant since it helps the government meet its fiscal deficit target for a particular year. The Centre targeted a 5.2 percent fiscal deficit target for FY25 in the interim budget.
 
The news published on the date July 12, 2024 08:28 PM IST with headline  High inflation, better industrial growth will aid RBI in holding rates higher for longer: Economists is: 
 Grounds for higher for longer A higher inflation print, coupled with higher industrial production, will provide support to the Reserve Bank of India to keep rates higher for longer, economists said on July 12.“The RBI will be in no hurry to ease monetary policy given the headroom from robust growth in the backdrop of near term inflation risks,” said Upasna Bhardwaj, chief economist, Kotak Mahindra Bank.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBoth inflation and industrial production surprised, with inflation rising above 5 percent for the first time in four months and industrial production soaring to a seven-month high of 5.9 percent in May compared to 5 percent in the previous month.Economists contend that a lot rides on the food inflation trajectory in the coming months and even an October cut, which was earlier anticipated, hangs in balance.“While the RBI has projected inflation to come down in Q2 to less than 4 percent, the monsoon progress will determine whether this is sustainable or not. RBI expects inflation to go back to 4.5 percent in the following quarters. Any rate action can be considered only in October and will be heavily data dependent,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Bank of Baroda.
 
The news published on the date July 12, 2024 07:07 PM IST with headline  India’s retail inflation rises to 4-month high of 5.08% in June is: 
 Food inflation stays high India’s retail inflation rose to four-month high of 5.08 percent in June compared with 4.75 percent in the previous month as food inflation galloped to 9.4 percent given the impact of heatwave on vegetables.Inflation had dipped to a 12-month low of 4.75 percent in the previous month, despite food inflation hovering around 8.7 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Despite favourable base effect inflation in June 2024 reversed five months declining trend. The food inflation in June 2024, after being less than 9 percent for five consecutive months jumped to six months high of 9.36 percent," said India Ratings and Research (Ind-Ra) economists Paras Jasrai and Sunil K Sinha.June marks the eighth consecutive month of over 8 percent food inflation, data released on July 12 showed.
 
The news published on the date July 12, 2024 06:30 PM IST with headline  Index of industrial output surprises with a rise of 5.9% in May, shows data is: 
 industrial production steady The industrial output growth surprised in May rising to a seven month high of 5.9 percent from 5 percent in the previous month, as manufacturing and electricity production soared, according to the official data released on July 12.A CNBC-TV18 poll had pencilled in an IIP growth of 4.6 percent, lower than what was reported a month ago.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“The IIP outperformed expectations, with the YoY growth rising to a seven-month high of 5.9 percent in May... amid a better-than-anticipated growth in manufacturing output," said Aditi Nayar, chief economist, Icra.The pace of growth in the index of industrial production has stayed above 5 percent for four consecutive months.For the first two months of the year, industrial output growth has averaged 5.4 percent compared with 5.1 percent in April-May 2024.
 
The news published on the date July 12, 2024 04:42 PM IST with headline  The Reading List: July 12, 2024 is: 
 Catch up on your weekend reading with articles from the world of economy, business and finance. In a world strapped for time, we thought you may find it useful to have a selection of articles we read this past week. As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. Occasionally, we may stray from these subjects.These links may be from external websites we frequent o
 
The news published on the date July 12, 2024 03:53 PM IST with headline  Business in the Week Ahead: July 15-19 is: 
 Event calendar Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) kickstarted the Q1 FY25 earnings season on a positive note. The company reported the best quarterly revenue growth in a year. Key business vertical banking and financial services returned to growth on a sequential basis. Yet, growth rates are muted. Management remains cautious on overall demand outlook.The coming week will see results from major companies including Reliance Industries (RIL), Infosys, HDFC Bank, Bajaj Auto, Asian Paints, LTIMindtree, UltraTech Cement, Wipro and Kotak Mahindr
 
The news published on the date July 12, 2024 03:09 PM IST with headline  The US Federal Reserve should cut rates now. Sadly, it won’t is: 
 Thursday’s wildly encouraging consumer price index report shows that the Federal Reserve should be cutting policy rates at its meeting later this month. Unfortunately, they’ll probably keep us waiting until September.On the inflation front, just about everything seems to be going right. CPI fell 0.1 percent in June from the previous month and was up just 3 percent from the same period a year earlier. Primary rents and owners’ equivalent rent — the heavily weighted and inertial housing categories that have bedeviled the Fed for two years — are finally cooling on what looks to be a sustainable basis. And used car prices are still falling like stones.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe right move is to start lowering policy rates at the next decision on July 31. The Fed has a dual mandate to promote maximum employment and stable prices, and recent developments leave real interest rates tight at a time when unemployment is creeping higher and job growth is slowing. Labour market trouble can snowball quickly and unpredictably once it begins.A rule developed by my Bloomberg Opinion colleague Claudia Sahm shows that historically, the economy is already in a recession once the three-month average of the unemployment rate rises at least a half percentage point above its low in the past 12 months. At present, it’s up 0.43 percentage point. The argument for cutting now is simple: High inflation appears to be vanquished, so why take risks with the employment side of the Fed’s mandate?
 
The news published on the date July 12, 2024 01:43 PM IST with headline  Indian banks eye record infra bond issue for second straight fiscal year is: 
 Indian banks eye record infra bond issue for second straight fiscal year Indian banks are set to raise around 400 billion rupees ($4.79 billion) through infrastructure bonds in July and August, potentially setting a record for the second consecutive year, according to five merchant bankers on Friday.If successful, funds raised via these bonds in the first five months of the current fiscal year started in April will surpass the 544 billion rupees raised in fiscal year 2023/24.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdInfrastructure bond issues had picked up last year, and the trend will continue as the gap between credit demand and deposit growth continues, said Shameek Ray, head of debt capital markets at ICICI Securities Primary Dealership.Government spending on infrastructure and a pick-up in investment in sectors like steel, roads and renewable energy is generating demand for funds, said Arnab Choudhury, head of debt capital markets at SBI Capital Markets.Infrastructure bonds are issued to finance long-term development projects.
 
The news published on the date July 12, 2024 01:12 PM IST with headline  Octogenarians to outnumber babies by 2063, shows UN population estimate is: 
 More older people than young by end of century India, the home to one of the youngest populations in the world, will have more people aged over 80 than babies between 0 to 4 years by 2063. The 80-plus population is set to grow nearly three-fold faster than that of babies by 2100, according to estimates released by the UN.The dependency ratio, which is the number of children and older people as a proportion of working age population (15-64 year old), is expected to rise to 77.5 percent by 2100.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA Moneycontrol analysis shows that within the next 30 years, India will have 50 percent dependent people compared with 46.6 percent today.In 2054, India’s population is likely to rise 16.6 percent to 1.692 billion from 1.451 billion projected for July 2024.
 
The news published on the date July 12, 2024 01:18 PM IST with headline  Economists are paying more attention to our inflation fears is: 
 - Soumaya KeynesAsk people what they think will happen to inflation in future, and you will get some pretty funky answers. On average they predict too much price growth, and also disagree wildly among themselves. This is awkward for economists, who would often rather assume away such complications. Some have responded with denial, doubting that household surveys of inflation are useful at all.In the context of painfully high price growth, over the past few years there has bee
 
The news published on the date July 12, 2024 01:00 PM IST with headline  Online betting should be included as scheduled offences under PMLA: Report is: 
 The report suggests MEITy should create nodal authority to register online real money games. Online betting and gambling activities should be included as scheduled offences under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002, to strengthen India's anti-money laundering framework, an institution under the Ministry of Home Affairs said in its report titled ‘Curbing betting and gambling in India—A national security imperative’.PMLA equips authorities with robust tools to investigate and trace illicit proceeds from online betting and gambling empowering them to disrupt the financial networks supporting these activities effectively.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“Once online betting and gambling activities are classified as scheduled offence under PMLA or are prohibited under regulatory frameworks, necessary international cooperation agreements should be entered into with jurisdictions where the majority of these platforms operate, such as Cyprus and Malta. Additionally, enforcement authorities should collaborate with international law enforcement agencies to issue arrest warrants and take appropriate legal actions,” the Rashtriya Raksha University report said.Rashtriya Raksha University under the Ministry of Home Affairs was established by the Parliament Act No. 31 in 2020. It aims to become an academic-research-training ecosystem for national security and police.A centralised legal framework with clear definitions for games of skill and chance and robust consumer protection measures is crucial for creating a safe and thriving online gaming ecosystem in India. This framework should also balance the need for state governments’ autonomy with the requirement for national uniformity in the digital age, the report said.
 
The news published on the date July 12, 2024 12:20 PM IST with headline  India is systemically prone to high food inflation – but it’s fixable is: 
 - HighlightsConsumer companies and policymakers have pointed to persistent food inflation in IndiaGovernment’s buffer stock management of key food items is making only a small difference to retail pricesLocalised and concentrated production make output and prices vulnerable to weather eventsGovt intervention must be at appropriate times without hurting producers or consumersFarmers must be sensitised on climate impact and also aided in managing the sam
 
The news published on the date July 12, 2024 10:45 AM IST with headline  India to clock GDP growth of 7% in FY25: NITI Aayog member Arvind Virmani is: 
 The Indian economy will grow around 7 per cent in the current fiscal year and is on track to maintain a similar growth rate for several years, NITI Aayog member Arvind Virmani said on Friday.Virmani said there are new challenges facing the country and they will have to be dealt with.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Indian economy will grow at 7 per cent plus minus point 0.5 per cent... I expect that we are on track to grow at 7 per cent for several years from today," he told PTI in an interview.Last month, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) pegged the FY25 gross domestic product (GDP) growth rate at 7.2 per cent.Responding to a question on the decline in private consumption expenditures in the last fiscal year, Virmani said it is actually recovering now.
 
The news published on the date July 12, 2024 10:13 AM IST with headline  MCA panel suggests raising to Rs 75 crore the threshold for businesses to maintain, audit cost accounts is: 
 This recommendation is part of the government's broader strategy to support SMEs. To ease the compliance burden of small and medium enterprises (SMEs), a government panel has suggested significantly raising the turnover threshold for companies to maintain and audit cost accounts.The panel has recommended increasing the limit to Rs 75 crore in any of the past three years, the Economic Times has reported.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt present, the mandated turnover limits are set at Rs 25 crore for companies in six regulated sectors and Rs 35 crore 33 unregulated sectors.A company that exceeds these thresholds must conduct mandatory cost audits and maintain detailed cost accounts.Under the new proposal, these requirements would only apply to companies with a turnover of Rs 75 crore or more, the report said.
 
The news published on the date July 12, 2024 09:41 AM IST with headline  How tight is the Russia-India trade embrace? is: 
 According to commerce ministry data, the value of India-Russia trade stood at $65.7 billion in 2023-24, up 33 percent year on year. (Representative image) HighlightsIndia, Russia target $100 billion bilateral trade by 2030At present, India has a huge trade deficit with Russia because of crude importIndia wants to ratchet up exports to Russia to correct trade imbalanceBoth sides exploring new trade routes and settlement mechanismsThe objectives listed in the joint declaration will take time to fructif
 
The news published on the date July 12, 2024 01:46 PM IST with headline  India’s ‘TOP’ vegetables could spoil its disinflation party is: 
 India's statistics ministry will release CPI inflation figure for June on July 12. India’s consumer price index (CPI) inflation for June, though mostly expected to hold steady or even ease versus the month before, may see a spike in vegetable prices that can curtail the disinflation journey.This especially given the recent increase in the prices of key ‘TOP’ vegetables comprising tomato, onion and potato.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEven as Barclays sees retail inflation moderating to 4.6 percent last month, it flags that a surge in vegetable prices is likely to limit the fall in the headline figure.India’s headline retail inflation eased to the lowest in a year at 4.75 percent in May 2024. And while food and beverages costs remained the same at 7.87 percent sequentially, prices of vegetables declined marginally to 27.33 percent versus 27.80 in April.But in June, Barclays anticipates an uptick in vegetable inflation on a month-on-month basis, adding that while prices typically rise in summer, the magnitude of the rise during the season has inched up in the last couple of years, “possibly reflective of the changing weather patterns -- increased frequency of heatwaves in May and June this year, followed by delayed monsoon progress in the vegetable-production hub in the northwest in second half of the month.”
 
The news published on the date July 11, 2024 06:06 PM IST with headline  Pledge to make India world's food basket, 100 high-yielding seeds coming soon: Shivraj Singh Chouhan is: 
 We import pulses, but this dependency should end, said Shivraj Singh Chouhan. Government has pledged to make India the world's food basket, and very soon as many as 100 high-yielding varieties of seeds are going to be launched to boost farmers' income, Agriculture Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said.Minister Chouhan was addressing the Agriculture Leadership Conclave 2024 in Maharashtra, where he said better seeds and modern technology will help improve the per hectare crop yield, and the Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR) will soon be launching high-yielding seeds.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHighlighting the need to bring down the cost of production for farmers, Minister Shivraj Chouhan said the doubling of Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme corpus and MSP support are going to be very helpful for farmers.Shivraj Singh Chouhan said both crop insurance and crop diversification are essential in India's food security. "We import pulses, but this dependency should end. Tur, masur, urad dals will be purchased by government at MSP as much as they are produced", Chouhan added.India is the largest producer and fifth largest exporter of millets in the world, and the government is keen to put similar focus on pulses and lentils as with millets.
 
The news published on the date July 11, 2024 02:57 PM IST with headline  Hiring trend: India Inc favours experience over youth in post-pandemic shift, shows EPF data is: 
 Experience finds place in formal job market India’s formal sector employers are preferring experience over age while hiring post pandemic, going by the Employees’ Provident Fund Scheme additions, despite nearly half of the population being below 25 years of age compared with just over a quarter for China.A Moneycontrol analysis of Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation data shows, the share of those aged 29 and above in the net additions to the Employees’ Provident Fund Scheme rose to 36.6 percent in FY24 compared with 21.7 percent in FY19.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe rise has come at the expense of younger workers as their share declined to 25.2 percent in FY24 from 39.9 percent five years ago.The reasonsExperts say that people opting for higher studies and easy availability of experienced workers at lower cost post-Covid might be reasons for this shift.
 
The news published on the date July 11, 2024 02:39 PM IST with headline  Auto component industry to see moderate growth this fiscal: ICRA is: 
 Auto component industry to see moderate growth this fiscal: ICRA The Red Sea crisis is likely to impact the margins of the auto component industry over the next few quarters amid higher container rates and shipping time, credit ratings agency ICRA said on Thursday, projecting a moderate growth for the industry this fiscal.Close to two-thirds of the auto component exports are made to North America and Europe, and one-third of the imports is made from these regions, as per the ratings agency.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"The disruption along the Red Sea route has resulted in a surge in container rates by 2-3 times in YTD (year-to-date) this calendar year compared to CY2023, while shipping time has also increased by around two weeks," ICRA said.The operating margins are set for a year-on-year improvement of around 50 basis-points in FY2025, benefitting from better operating leverage, higher content per vehicle, and value additions, while remaining exposed to any sharp volatility in commodity prices and foreign exchange rates, it said.Also, the industry's liquidity position, according to ICRA, remains comfortable, especially across tier-I players supported by stable cash flows and earnings.
 
The news published on the date July 11, 2024 01:59 PM IST with headline  Will resume agitation on pending demands of legal guarantee to MSP, farm loan waiver: SKM is: 
 Will resume agitation on pending demands of legal guarantee to MSP, farm loan waiver: SKM Farmers' body SKM on Thursday announced it will resume its agitation over its pending demands, including a legal guarantee to MSP and loan waiver, and submit a memorandum to the prime minister and the leader of opposition in the Lok Sabha.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which led the 2020-21 farmers' protest, made the announcement a day after its general body met.Story continues below Advertisement"The general body has decided to resume the agitation demanding implementation of the agreement, dated December 9, 2021, that the Union government has with the SKM, signed by the Secretary of the Department of Agriculture, Government of India, and other key demands affecting the livelihood of farmers," the SKM said.It said the organisation will submit an updated charter of demands to all MPs, On August 9, the SKM will observe "Quit India Day" as "Corporates Quit India Day" by holding demonstrations across the country in support of its charter of demands, the organisation said
 
The news published on the date July 11, 2024 01:46 PM IST with headline  India's oil, gas exploration offers $100 billion opportunity: Hardeep Singh Puri is: 
 India's oil, gas exploration offers $100 billion opportunity: Hardeep Singh Puri Oil Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Thursday called for stepping up oil and gas hunt to cut India's reliance on imports and making available fuel at an affordable and sustainable way.Speaking at the Urja Varta conference, he said the exploration and production (E&P) sector is integral in the journey towards energy self-sufficiency, which is critical for sustained economic growth.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"E&P offers investment opportunities worth USD 100 billion by 2030," he said.Stating that India's exploration and production potential still lies untapped, he said, "I find it strange that India is so heavily reliant on oil imports despite the abundant geological resources available to us."The Indian sedimentary basins hold about 651.8 million tonnes of crude oil and 1138.6 billion cubic meters of natural gas, he said.
 
The news published on the date July 11, 2024 01:13 PM IST with headline  Centre to launch 125-plus fisheries projects worth over Rs 100 crore in Tamil Nadu on Friday is: 
 Centre to launch 125-plus fisheries projects worth over Rs 100 crore in Tamil Nadu on Friday In a major boost to the fisheries sector, Union Minister Rajiv Ranjan Singh is slated to inaugurate more than 125 projects at the Fisheries Summer Meet to be held in Madurai, Tamil Nadu on Friday, according to ministry officials.These initiatives, approved under the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY), represent a total investment exceeding Rs 100 crore.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe ministry officials said the diverse array of initiatives includes fish retail kiosks, shrimp hatcheries, brood banks, ornamental fish units, biofloc units, fish feed mills, and fish value-added enterprises.PMMSY, a flagship programme of the Centre, aims to foster sustainable development in the fisheries sector. While details of specific financial assistance were not disclosed, the scheme is expected to significantly bolster local businesses and enhance the country's fisheries output.The event will also see Singh distribute grants to 12 winners of the inaugural Fisheries Startup Grand Challenge, organised by the ministry.
 
The news published on the date July 11, 2024 12:42 PM IST with headline  Finance ministry notifies GSTR-1A to amend outward supply form is: 
 FinMin notifies GSTR-1A to amend outward supply form The finance ministry has notified the GSTR-1A form which will give an option to taxpayers to amend outward supply or sales return form.Last month, the GST Council had recommended providing a new optional facility by way of form GSTR-1A to facilitate the taxpayers to amend the details in form GSTR-1 for a tax period and/ or to declare additional details.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdGSTR-1A will, however, have to be filed before filing of return in GSTR-3B for the said tax period.The finance ministry on July 10 notified the GSTR-1A form.Moore Singhi Executive Director Rajat Mohan said the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has introduced a significant enhancement to the GST compliance framework with the optional facility of form GSTR-1A.
 
The news published on the date July 11, 2024 11:54 AM IST with headline  India widens use of foreign currency accounts in GIFT City is: 
 India widens use of foreign currency accounts in GIFT City Indians have been allowed wider usage of foreign currency accounts at the Gujarat International Finance Tec-City, or GIFT City, boosting business prospects for a finance hub pushed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.GIFT City, launched in the western state of Gujarat by Modi in 2011, has been planned as an alternative to regional financial centres like Dubai. It offers easier regulations compared with the rest of India but has seen a slow pick up in interest from foreign investors.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe latest changes, announced by the Reserve Bank of India in a circular late on Wednesday, allow Indian investors to use GIFT City as a route for more overseas spending and investments.Indians are allowed to remit up to $250,000 overseas each year for education and medical expenditure as well as certain kinds of investments.So far, foreign currency accounts in the finance hub could only be used for investing in overseas-listed securities and for paying tuition for foreign universities at GIFT City.
 
The news published on the date July 10, 2024 09:56 PM IST with headline  Powell stresses message that US job market is cooling, a possible signal of coming rate cut is: 
 Powell stresses message that US job market is cooling, a possible signal of coming rate cut Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell on Wednesday reinforced a message that the Fed is paying growing attention to a slowing job market and not only to taming inflation, a shift that signals it's likely to begin cutting interest rates soon."We're not just an inflation-targeting central bank," Powell told the House Financial Services Committee on the second of two days of semi-annual testimony to Congress. "We also have an employment mandate."Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn Tuesday, when Powell addressed the Senate Banking Committee, he suggested that the Fed had made 'considerable progress' toward its goal of defeating the worst inflation spike in four decades and noted that cutting rates too late or too little could unduly weaken economic activity and employment."Congress has given the Fed a dual mandate: To keep prices stable and to promote maximum employment."For a long time," Powell said Wednesday, "we've had to focus on the inflation mandate." As the economy roared out of the pandemic recession, inflation reached a four-decade high in mid-2022. The Fed responded by raising its benchmark rate 11 times in 2022 and 2023. Inflation has plummeted from its 9.1% peak to 3.3%.
 
The news published on the date July 10, 2024 07:19 PM IST with headline  Retail inflation for industrial workers eases to 3.86% in May is: 
 Retail inflation for industrial workers eases to 3.86% in May Retail inflation for industrial workers eased to 3.86 per cent in May compared to 4.42 per cent in the same month a year ago.The Consumer Price Index-Industrial Workers (CPI-IW) was 3.87 per cent in April 2024, a labour ministry statement said.Story continues below AdvertisementAccording to the statement, year-on-year inflation for May 2024 moderated to 3.86 per cent against 4.42 per cent in May 2023.The All-India CPI-IW for May 2024 increased by 0.5 points and stood at 139.9 points. It was 139.4 points in April 2024.The food and beverages group increased to 145.2 points in May from 143.4 points in April this year.The fuel & light segment dipped to 149.5 points in May from 152.8 points in April 2024.The Labour Bureau, an attached office of the Ministry of Labour & Employment, has been compiling the Consumer Price Index for Industrial Workers every month on the basis of retail prices collected from 317 markets spread over 88 industrially important centres in the country
 
The news published on the date July 10, 2024 06:35 PM IST with headline  MOSPI preparing Vision 2029 document with focus on AI, ML is: 
 Five year vision, with eye on AI The Union Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MOSPI) is working on a five-year plan, which includes artificial intelligence and machine learning as focus areas, sources told Moneycontrol.“Consultations are going on regarding our vision for the next five years,” a person aware of the developments said, noting that the ministry will set the themes, based on which it will decide on goals and a plan of action.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOne of the primary focus of the new document is likely to be further incorporating artificial intelligence and machine learning and strengthening the technology base.“We have already moved from paper-based interviews to computer-aided interviews, which check the data in real-time,” the person said.The document is also likely to lay down a year-wise plan for the ministry to work towards.
 
The news published on the date July 10, 2024 06:21 PM IST with headline  Guaranteed pension model will hurt states more than the Centre is: 
 Guaranteed pension model to be a burden for states A guaranteed pension model, which ends up assuring 50 percent of basic income as pension, may end up hurting the states more than the Centre, as this will result in a reduced fiscal space to accommodate higher spends, according to a Moneycontrol analysis.If 50 percent of the last basic income is set as a pension, the Centre and states will likely spend 269 percent more, in current value terms, than they would have spent had they adhered to the new pension scheme. On Wednesday, the Times of India reported that the government was considering modifying the New Pension Scheme, established in 2004, to ensure a guaranteed element so that an employee received 50 percent of the last basic salary as a pension. In other words, if the return from NPS only yielded a pension equivalent to, say, 25 percent of the last drawn basic salary then the government would fill the gap.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdUnder the old pension scheme, a guaranteed defined benefit of half of the last salary drawn is given as a lifelong pension, sans any contribution from the employee. The New Pension Scheme entails a 14 percent contribution from the government while the employee contributes 10 percent.The AP government set up a consultative committee in 2022 with the remit to ensure that state government employees received 33 percent of the last drawn salary as pension. As per the committee’s calculations, the National Pension Scheme was likely to return 20 percent of basic pay as pension by the end of an employee’s tenure. Thus, the gap, in this case 13 percent, would have to be met by the state government.The AP model assumes a 7 percent return on NPS investments between 2026-30, reducing to 4 percent by 2081-2100.
 
The news published on the date July 10, 2024 04:47 PM IST with headline  Rupee falls 2 paise to settle at 83.51 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee falls 2 paise to settle at 83.51 against US dollar The rupee stayed range-bound and settled 2 paise lower at 83.51 (provisional) against the US dollar on Wednesday amid rising crude oil prices overseas and selling in domestic equities.A softening American currency and inflow of foreign funds capped the fall in the local unit, forex traders said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange market, the rupee opened flat at 83.49 against the dollar and moved in a close range of 83.48 to 83.53 during the session. The local unit finally settled at 83.51 (provisional) against the American currency, registering a loss of 2 paise from its previous close.The rupee had edged up 1 paisa to close at 83.49 against the dollar on Tuesday.Anuj Choudhary, Research Analyst at Sharekhan by BNP Paribas, said the rupee is expected to trade with a slight negative bias on weakness in domestic market and positive tone in the dollar.
 
The news published on the date July 10, 2024 02:46 PM IST with headline  India to sell wheat from state stocks to flour millers, biscuit makers is: 
 India to sell wheat from state stocks to flour millers, biscuit makers India plans to sell wheat from its state reserves to bulk consumers such as flour millers and biscuit makers from next month, according to a government order seen by Reuters, as it seeks to keep a lid on local prices by boosting supplies.The government has allowed the state-run Food Corporation of India (FCI) to start offering wheat from its inventories from next month at 23,250 rupees ($279) a ton, the order said, nearly 12% lower than prevailing open market prices.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFCI is yet to decide the quantity of wheat that it plans to sell on the open market.Last year, FCI began selling wheat to private players in June. It sold a little more than 10 million metric tons in the fiscal year to March 2024, a record sale from state reserves.Because of the attractive price at which FCI will offer the wheat from its stocks, many private players would be interested in buying the grain in large quantities, said a Mumbai-based dealer with a global trading house.
 
The news published on the date July 10, 2024 02:14 PM IST with headline  Karnataka nets Rs 6,450 crore investment commitment from Japan, South Korea; to create 1,000 jobs is: 
 Karnataka Large and Medium Industries & Infrastructure Development Minister MB Patil. Karnataka Large and Medium Industries & Infrastructure Development Minister MB Patil said on July 10 that the state delegation’s visit to Japan and South Korea secured Rs 6,450 crore in investment commitments which could create more than 1,000 jobs.Ahead of Karnataka's Global Investors Meet in February 2025,a high-level delegation from Karnataka, led by Patil recently concluded a two-week visit to Japan and South Korea.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"These commitments from six major companies are projected to create over 1,000 jobs in Karnataka," said Patil."Beyond immediate commitments, the Karnataka delegation identified promising leads worth $3 billion (Rs 25,000 crore) across the automotive, electronics, and energy solutions sectors. These leads signify potential future investments and underscore Karnataka’s strategic importance as an investment destination," said Patil."During the two-week visit from June 24 to July 5, 2024, the Karnataka delegation engaged with senior leadership from leading companies and conducted investment roadshows for SMEs, highlighting Karnataka's robust manufacturing ecosystem," he said.
 
The news published on the date July 10, 2024 01:53 PM IST with headline  Industry, services added 33% more jobs between FY14 and FY23: SBI Research is: 
 Industry, services added more jobs Industry and services created 33 percent more jobs in the decade between FY14 and FY23, compared with the previous decade, according to data released by State Bank of India’s research unit on Wednesday.Industry and services created 88.9 million jobs between FY14 and FY23, up from 66.4 million in the previous decade.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe study also noted that the RBI’s KLEMS study released on July 8, is in sync with Annual Survey of Unincorporated Sector Enterprises report released last week.“If we compare, RBI KLEMS number with the recent released the factsheet of Annual Survey of Unincorporated Sector Enterprises (ASUSE) 2022-2023, it indicates the FY23 numbers are comparable and at similar level. ASUSE FY23 indicates total employment is 568 million and RBI reports 597 million,” it said.The RBI report had noted that the country added 4.7 million jobs in FY24, more than double of what it added in the previous year and the highest in four decades.
 
The news published on the date July 10, 2024 01:52 PM IST with headline  SCI, NMDC Steel at advanced stages of strategic sale, await nod from PMO is: 
 SCI, NMDC Steel at advanced stages of strategic sale, await nod from PMO The government's disinvestment agenda is very much on, if at an unsteady pace, according to a senior government official. Some public sector undertakings (PSUs) are at an advanced stage of strategic sale but are awaiting the nod from the top political levels, the official said.While the government has decided to not set divestment targets to chase in the budget, DIPAM, or the finance ministry's Department of Investment and Public Asset Management is hoping to push through strategic sales in companies like Shipping Corporation of India (SCI) and NMDC Steel Limited (NSL).Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“NMDC Steel's strategic sale is at an advanced stage. All the work is done, only financial bids need to be invited. It’s a ripe case for privatisation. The government can do it but without a go-ahead from the PMO (Prime Minister's Office) nothing will happen. There is uncertainty,” the official told Moneycontrol on condition of anonymity.The NSL divestment is fraught with political challenges. Workers’ unions have been opposed to the move. The company employs 5,887 people and has Rs 36,929 crore of assets.Interestingly, home minister Amit Shah at an October 19, 2023, election meeting in Chhattisgarh's Bastar region said that the Nagarnar steel plant in the area would not be privatised. This is important since the steel plant is the bedrock of NSL, which was spun out of NMDC as a separate company to operate the 3 million tonnes per annum facility. NSL was listed on the BSE in February 2023. “Now the go-ahead has to come from top whether the plant will be commissioned to run or privatised,” the official said.
 
The news published on the date July 10, 2024 12:26 PM IST with headline  Official employment data masks India's jobs problem, say economists
 
The news published on the date July 10, 2024 09:16 AM IST with headline  India inflation seen up in June due to soaring vegetable prices: Poll is: 
 India inflation seen up in June due to soaring vegetable prices: Poll India consumer price inflation probably edged up in June, snapping five months of declines, largely because of a jump in vegetable prices caused by the damage to crops wrought by extreme weather, according to a Reuters poll of economists.Prices of tomatoes, onions, and potatoes - staples in every Indian kitchen - surged by double digits last month as extreme heat and heavy floods in India's northern states disrupted agricultural production.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe July 5-9 Reuters poll of 54 economists forecast consumer price inflation rose to 4.80% last month on a year earlier, up from 4.75% in May. Food accounts for around half the overall CPI basket.Forecasts for the data, due on July 12 at 1200 GMT, ranged from 4.10% to 5.19%."A sharp spike in vegetable prices along with cereals and pulses kept food inflation at higher levels and nullified the softness in eggs, fruits, and spices prices," said Kanika Pasricha, chief economic advisor at Union Bank of India.
 
The news published on the date July 10, 2024 08:51 AM IST with headline  Trade opportunity knocks at India’s door is: 
 Representative image HighlightsUNCTAD’s July update on global trade speaks of an uptickThe UN report is in sync with WTO findingsIndia, along with the US and China, is a major driver of trade growthIndia’s goods exports in April-May this year have shown an uptrendHowever, India’s trade deficit is wideningThe momentum in global trade pickup could be fragileIndia should leverage the current trend to export more good
 
The news published on the date July 09, 2024 08:23 PM IST with headline  Poonam Gupta appointed as convenor of 5-member Advisory Council to 16th Finance Commission is: 
 16th Finance Commission The Sixteenth Finance Commission has constituted a 5-member Advisory Council including, Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister (EAC-PM) part-time member Neelkanth Mishra, National Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER) Director General Poonam Gupta and Ernst and Young Chief Policy Advisor DK Srivastava.Gupta will be the Convenor of the Advisory Council, the Finance Ministry said in a statement on July 9.Story continues below AdvertisementThe other members in the advisory council are HSBC Securities & Capital Markets (India) Private Limited Chief India Economist Pranjul Bhandari and Barclays Investment Bank Head of emerging markets Asia Rahul Bajoria.“The Advisory Council will help broaden the sixteenth Finance Commission's ambit and understanding by seeking the best national and international practices on matters pertaining to fiscal devolution and improving the quality, reach, and enforcement of its recommendations,” it said. It will also assist in the preparation of papers or research studies and to monitor or assess studies commissioned by the Finance Commission, thereby enhancing the Commission's understanding of the issues, it added
 
The news published on the date July 09, 2024 07:29 PM IST with headline  S&P 500, Nasdaq open at fresh record highs; Powell testimony awaited is: 
 S&P 500, Nasdaq open at fresh record highs; Powell testimony awaited The Nasdaq and the S&P 500 opened at record levels on Tuesday, supported by new gains in semiconductor and megacap technology stocks, as investors awaited comments from Federal Reserve chair Jerome Powell for clues on the central bank's monetary policy path.At 9:34 a.m. ET, Dow e-minis were down 58 points, or 0.15%, S&P 500 e-minis were up 13.75 points, or 0.24%, and Nasdaq 100 e-minis were up 102.75 points, or 0.5
 
The news published on the date July 09, 2024 07:22 PM IST with headline  How stocks became the game that record numbers of Americans are playing is: 
 How stocks became the game that record numbers of Americans are playing Legions of retail investors flooded the stock market in 2021, eager to chase volatile “meme stocks” with strong social media followings and weak financials. This passion to own a piece of companies such as GameStop Corp. and AMC Entertainment Holdings Inc. seemed like a fever that was sure to break. Fueled by pandemic stimulus checks and pre-vaccine boredom, newbie traders had nothing better to do than funnel their cash into shares championed by internet investing gurus including Keith Gill and Ryan Cohen.Flash-forward three years, and it’s abundantly clear: We’re living in a new age of finance. It’s never been easier to bet your money—anytime, anywhere—and meme-stock craziness is here to stay. A wave of technological advancements has coincided with new apps and platforms to create a thriving ecosystem where everyday people can trade stocks with the ease of swiping for dates on Tinder.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad Retail traders as a share of US equity volumeYoung people can open a trading account in minutes. Members of Generation Z start investing when they’re 19, on average, according to a Charles Schwab Corp. survey released in June. That compares with 32 for Gen X and 35 for baby boomers. Schwab also found that almost 3 in 5 Americans today are investing in stocks. Federal Reserve data show this proportion represents the highest on record.Retail investors have plenty of ways to play once-exotic and out-of-reach markets. Exchange-traded funds that invest in Bitcoin premiered this year, and a boom in zero-day options—a turbocharged version that allows traders to make rapid and risky bets on price moves—has taken the retail community by storm.
 
The news published on the date July 09, 2024 05:27 PM IST with headline  Modi-Putin meet: India needs a solution for the ballooning trade gap with Russia is: 
 Prime Minister Narendra Modi with Russian president Vladimir Putin Amid Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Russia, the focus is on India's widening trade deficit with that nation along with the geopolitical situation.Modi landed in Russia on July 8 for a two-day visit, a first since Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine in February 2022.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdModi and Russian President Vladimir Putin are expected to discuss an array of topics about current regional and global issues of mutual concern during the bilateral meeting.Moneycontrol takes a look at trade relations between the two nations that stood at $65.69 billion in FY24, registering a growth of 33.1 percent on-year.Trade gap
 
The news published on the date July 09, 2024 05:09 PM IST with headline  Bobby Jain’s complex hedge fund debut spawns fans and doubters is: 
 Bobby Jain’s complex hedge fund debut spawns fans and doubters (Image: Bloomberg) Inside the elegant Breakers Palm Beach resort, Bobby Jain made his multibillion-dollar pitch. His audience: the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, steward of one of the world’s great petro-fortunes and, to Jain, a perfect client for his new hedge fund.His vision — laid out in the hotel’s seafood restaurant — was ambitious, even unprecedented. He would hatch a giant, fully formed hedge fund that would trade a half-dozen strategies and employ hundreds of people globally from day one. It required quickly finding gifted traders amid an expensive talent war, building complex infrastructure over months and raising enough investor money to pay for it.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFailing to achieve even one of those lofty targets could tank the whole thing before it ever got started. Even Jain has likened the maneuver to landing three airplanes at once.Many investors sat on the sidelines, skeptical of the deviation from the typical hedge fund playbook of starting small and building from there. While Jain initially set out to hit a record of as much as $10 billion, he later halved that goal.But Jain, a onetime acolyte of Millennium Management founder Izzy Englander, won votes of confidence from key investors including the Middle Eastern sovereign wealth fund, which ultimately handed him about $1 billion. He raised $5.3 billion in total, the biggest launch since ExodusPoint Capital Management’s record $8 billion debut in 2018.
 
The news published on the date July 09, 2024 04:17 PM IST with headline  Rupee gains 1 paisa to 83.49 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee gains 1 paisa to 83.49 against US dollar The rupee inched up one paisa at 83.49 (provisional) against the US dollar on Tuesday as gains from strong domestic equities and sliding global crude prices were negated by a surging greenback overseas.At the interbank foreign exchange market, the rupee started slightly up at 83.49 and hit an intra-day high of 83.47 and a low of 83.51 against the American currency during the session.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIt finally settled at 83.49 against the dollar, registering a gain of one paisa over the previous close.On Monday, the rupee settled at 83.50 against the US dollar."Indian rupee gained today on optimism as Nifty touched fresh all-time highs and fresh FII inflows. A decline in crude oil prices also supported the rupee. However, a positive US dollar capped sharp gains. The US dollar gained on weak Euro amid political uncertainty in France," Anuj Choudhary, Research Analyst at Sharekhan by BNP Paribas, said.
 
The news published on the date July 09, 2024 04:12 PM IST with headline  Citi says it’s time to book profits in high-flying AI equities is: 
 Citi says it’s time to book profits in high-flying AI equities The rally in artificial-intelligence stocks may show little sign of flagging, but a historical review suggests it’s time to take profit in the biggest names, according to strategists at Citigroup Inc.Sentiment toward AI-exposed equities is the strongest since 2019 and free cash flow at the bulk of those firms is forecast to outstrip analyst expectations, according to the Citi team led by Drew Pettit.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdReadings like that typically suggest “significantly more volatility” is on the way. And while there may be no signs of an overall price bubble, the rally in some names is “concerning,” they said.The buzz around AI has powered stocks to record highs this year. Nvidia Corp. briefly became the world’s most valuable company and Asian chip-making giant Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. at one point crossed $1 trillion in market capitalization.“We continue to suggest investors take profits in AI highfliers,” in particular the chip-makers, Pettit and colleagues wrote in a note dated July 8. Investors should “re-balance toward a broader array of AI stocks across the value chain,” they said.
 
The news published on the date July 09, 2024 04:04 PM IST with headline  Govt eyes reforms aimed at lowering fiscal burden of crop insurance premium by Rs 5,000 cr is: 
 For North-Eastern and Himalayan regions, the premium cost of the crop insurance is shared in the ratio of 10:90 between the state and the Center. The government is aiming to lower the fiscal burden for crop insurance premium by Rs 5,000 crore for both the Center and states with technological reforms, risk diversification and wider coverage, two government officials said.“Currently four crore farmers are covered under the crop insurance (2023-24), which is the highest ever. The crop insurance premium is expected at seven to nine percent in the next tender cycle. The premium rate for crop insurance is 10.8-11 percent currently at approximately Rs 30,000 crore annually. The savings will begin in the next tender cycle in 2026-27, which is likely at Rs 5,000 crore. The tendering will begin in 2026 April-May,” a government official told Moneycontrol.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA Yes-tech (yield estimation systems through technology) for accurate determination of claim currently covers wheat and paddy. It has been extended to soybean from kharif 2024 and is likely to cover cotton during the next six months. With these reforms bringing transparency into the calculation of claims, the premium rate for crop insurance is expected to reduce from 10.8 percent to seven to nine percent in the next bidding cycle in 2026, they said.“Yes-tech assesses crop losses through technology for determination of claim amount. Now soybean has been included in it from Kharif 2024. The government is doing pilots to include cotton and pulses crop under the new technology. Cotton is likely to be included in it in the next six months. Mahalanobis National Crop Forecast Centre (MNCFC) under the Agriculture Ministry are drivers of the Yes-tech technology,” a government official told Moneycontrol.The Yes-tech is based on satellite imagery and uses drones to check the length of the crop, thus reducing manual work and scope for errors.
 
The news published on the date July 09, 2024 03:48 PM IST with headline  Investors shift to Singapore after RBI's curbs on local rupee futures is: 
 Investors shift to Singapore after RBI's curbs on local rupee futures The jump in open interest on rupee/dollar currency futures on the Singapore Exchange indicates that investors are shifting their arbitrage and hedging activity to the city-state after the Indian central bank imposed restrictions on local currency futures, traders said.WHY IT'S IMPORTANTStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Reserve Bank of India has been seeking to increase the volume of rupee derivatives traded in the local market relative to offshore, which helps them have more control over the currency.However, in January, the central bank issued revised rules requiring underlying foreign exchange exposure for transacting in exchange-traded rupee derivatives.While it did not specify a reason, central bank officials said the regulations of Foreign Exchange Management Act state that exchange traded currency derivatives are only for hedging.
 
The news published on the date July 09, 2024 03:46 PM IST with headline  States need to nearly double growth to achieve $1-trillion economy goal in time is: 
 States set to miss $1 trillion target India’s states will need to grow nearly double their long-run average pace if they want to achieve their $1-trillion economy target, according to a Moneycontrol analysis.Uttar Pradesh, which earlier this week announced that it will embrace the public private partnership model to achieve $1-trillion economy goal by FY28, will have to expand by nearly 50 percent over the next four years to achieve its goal.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn this year’s Budget (2024-25), the government has kept a modest expectation of 5.8 percent growth of FY25 from 4.6 percent in FY24.The UP economy is expected be a shade below $300 million in FY25 in current dollar terms (Rs 83.5). It grew at a compounded annual growth rate of 9.9 percent over the last decade and 12.6 percent post-pandemic (FY22-24).
 
The news published on the date July 09, 2024 01:12 PM IST with headline  Why Trump 2.0 might be good for investors is: 
 If the Republicans win the White House and both houses of Congress, Trump’s policies are less likely to get watered down by the political process. Edward YardeniThe writer is president and chief investment strategist at Yardeni ResearchPredicting political outcomes in the US is a much more hazardous profession than predicting the country’s stock market. Now try doing both, ie, predicting the outcome of the coming presidential and congressional elections and the resulting impact of the political and policy changes on the economy and financial markets.Let’s give it a shot but narrow the exercise to what the next four years might be lik
 
The news published on the date July 09, 2024 12:04 PM IST with headline  Moody’s keeps India’s 2024 growth unchanged at 6.8% is: 
 Moddy's expects inflation to ease to 5.2 percent in the current year from 5.7 percent in 2023 and further decline to 4.8 percent in the following year. Global rating agency, Moody’s, on Friday, kept India’s 2024 growth forecast unchanged at 6.8 percent from its March forecast.The rating firm predicted Indian economy to grow 6.4 percent in 2025.Story continues below Advertisement“Increasing domestic and overseas demand is supporting GDP growth in emerging markets (EMs), with wide variation by country,” it said.The agency expects inflation to ease to 5.2 percent in the current year from 5.7 percent in 2023 and further decline to 4.8 percent in the following year.Inflation declined to a 12-month low of 4.75 percent in May, according to data released by the government last month.“In Indonesia and India, headline inflation has slowed mainly because of lower food prices, but the volatility of these prices remains an issue for the two countries,” it said.“Headline inflation is decreasing in EM Asia and is near or below central bank targets in most countries in that region alongside generally tepid wage trends, although India and Vietnam are reporting stronger wage gains of over 5% year on year,” Moody’s further added.The Reserve Bank of India recently revised india’s growth forecast upward to 7.2 percent from 7 percent projected earlier
 
The news published on the date July 09, 2024 11:29 AM IST with headline  India’s e-commerce policy likely to be on backburner amid sluggish FDI inflows is: 
 India's $60 billion online retail sector is currently dominated by Flipkart Amazon which together control more than 80 percent of market share In the works since 2018, India’s e-commerce policy may run into more delays as the government looks to keep the status quo with major players in the sector such as Walmart-owned Flipkart and Amazon at a time when net foreign direct investments inflows has slowed down, according to people close to the developments.Sources also said that at a review meeting attended by top officials last week, it was informally decided that the policy was not an immediate priority to be worked upon.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Ministry of Commerce did not respond to an email seeking comments on this development.When the first draft of the e-commerce policy came out in February 2019, it was seen to be too unwieldy to implement as it touched upon myriad areas of the internet such as data regulation, antitrust measures, intellectual property, and consumer protection, among other things.After the industry pointed out challenges with the draft, the Commerce Ministry and Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) went back to the drawing board.
 
The news published on the date July 11, 2024 08:58 AM IST with headline  US elections: What is in store for geopolitics and markets? is: 
 Joe Biden Vs Donald Trump Highlights - Quarterly performance largely backed by improved realisations - Medium-term triggers China plus and protectionist measures for tyre industry - Valuations not inexpensive; but improved medium-term outlook HighlightsSurveys point towards Republican winSplit government to facilitate checks & balanceBiden for higher corporate tax rate, Trump for lowerInflation dynamics may get influenced due to change in leadershipMonetary policy cues already pointing towards an early rate cutChina-plus-one can potentially gain prominenc
 
The news published on the date July 09, 2024 09:33 AM IST with headline  Market outlook hinges on how banking stocks perform is: 
 With a 34% weightage of banking in Nifty, the prospects of Bank Nifty and Nifty are joined at the hip The concept of cost of funds is alien to many a newbie trader. But it is the pivot around which financial markets revolve. When cost of funds (interest rates) rise, many a headline index succumb to gravity and plummet lower. Interest (cost of funds) is a very powerful tool that the high net worth investors wield and it is their money that moves needles and gauges in financial markets.Retail traders tried “controlling” the market in the head
 
The news published on the date July 09, 2024 08:23 AM IST with headline  MC Daily Monsoon Tracker: Sowing picks up as rainfall situation improves is: 
 Rainfall helps sowing Area sown under major crops was 14 percent higher as of July 5 compared with the previous year, as rainfall situation improved across the country.Sowing is likely to improve further as the country faced a rainfall surplus of 1.8 percent as of July 8, according to data released by the Indian Meteorological Department.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTwenty-seven states now face normal or above-normal rainfall, of which 20 are experiencing normal rainfall conditions. Chandigarh is the only region in the country with over 50 percent rainfall deficit.
 
The news published on the date July 09, 2024 08:27 AM IST with headline  Budget Snapshot: Easing raw material prices to lighten India’s fertiliser subsidy bill is: 
 Farmers sprinkle fertilisers on a paddy field The moderation in raw material and feedstock prices is lowering the fertiliser subsidy bill of the government. From Rs 2.5 lakh crore in FY23, the fertiliser subsidy outgo dropped to Rs 1.88 lakh crore in FY24. The interim budget pegged the FY25 fertiliser subsidy requirement at Rs 1.64 lakh crore. Given the reduction in input costs and finished goods prices, the budgeted amount is seen to be sufficient for FY25. Ratings agency ICRA expects the subsidy budge
 
The news published on the date July 09, 2024 07:52 AM IST with headline  Job growth in FY24 highest in more than 40 years is: 
 - The Reserve Bank of India has unveiled an update to the India KLEMS database, which shows that employment growth in the Indian economy was a strong 6 percent in 2023-24, the highest since 1981-82, which is as far back as the database goes (see accompanying chart). Going by the KLEMS estimates, those who say the Indian economy is not creating enough jobs are barking up the wrong tree. Indeed, in view of these estimates, there seems t
 
The news published on the date July 08, 2024 08:24 PM IST with headline  India added 2.5 times more jobs in FY24, highest since 1981-82: RBI data is: 
 India added 46.7 million jobs in FY24 India added 2.5 times more jobs in FY24 compared to the previous year, provisional data released by the Reserve Bank of India on July 8 showed.The total additions to the workforce at 46.7 million were the highest since 1981-82, according to calculations, with the rate of growth at 6 percent also outpacing the previous three decades.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe country’s noteworthy job addition came when the output growth was only marginally higher at 6.7 percent in FY24 compared to 6.6 percent in the previous year.Reserve Bank of India’s KLEMS database uses the government’s periodic labour force survey to calculate employment numbers.
 
The news published on the date July 08, 2024 06:48 PM IST with headline  Indian tourists future growth engine for global tourism: OECD is: 
 India growth driver for tourism Indian tourists are emerging as a future growth engine for global tourism, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development said in its Tourism Trends and Policies 2024 report released on July 8.“Outbound travel from India is emerging as a future growth engine for global tourism, with the rapid expansion of the middle classes and scaling up of air connectivity across the country,” the grouping of 38 high-income countries noted.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdDespite a pick-up from the pandemic years, tourist arrivals in OECD economies have not recovered to pre-pandemic levels. Tourist arrivals were down 23 percent in 2022 compared with 2019 levels.Globally, tourist arrivals are likely to exceed pre-pandemic levels in 2024, the report said. In 2023, global tourist arrivals were 89 percent of pre-pandemic level.“International tourist arrivals exceeded pre-pandemic levels in some OECD countries in 2023, with countries in Europe leading the way. Portugal welcomed a record 19.4 million international tourists, 12.1% more than in 2019,” it said.
 
The news published on the date July 08, 2024 06:23 PM IST with headline  India's informal sector surges post-pandemic: 9% increase in firms, Rs 2 lakh crore output boost is: 
 Informal firms' output was up 15% in 2022-23 India's informal sector grew post-pandemic, with Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, and Chhattisgarh logging big output gains in fiscal 2022-23.The number of informal firms in India increased 9 percent to 65 million in 2022-23 from 59.7 million in 2022-21, according to the Annual Survey of Unincorporated Sector Enterprises data released by the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation. The output from non-agricultural firms also showed an increase of Rs 2 lakh crore, or 15 percent, to Rs 15.5 lakh crore in FY23 over the previous year.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAndhra Pradesh, Bihar, and Chhattisgarh emerged as the frontrunners in this growth, witnessing high double-digit gains in output within a year, thereby leading the additions to total output.In Chhattisgarh, the output of informal firms was up 80 percent from the previous year, as the state added 20 percent more units and output per establishment went up nearly 50 percent.In Andhra Pradesh, the output increased by 40 percent, as the number of units increased by a tenth during this period.
 
The news published on the date July 08, 2024 04:39 PM IST with headline  India employment provisionally grew at 6% in FY24 vs 3.2% in FY23, shows RBI data is: 
 People walk on Kartavya Path, earlier known as Rajpath India provisionally created 46.7 million jobs in the financial year ended March 2024, taking the country's total employment to 643.3 million, a Reserve Bank of India report showed on Monday.The country's employment growth rate stood at 6% in that fiscal year, versus 3.2% in the previous fiscal year, the RBI's report on measuring industry level productivity and employment showed.Story continues below AdvertisementThe report, a routine release from the central bank, has traditionally only shown historical numbers. On Monday, however, the central bank said it is attempting a provisional estimate of productivity for the total economy for the first time for the financial year 2023/24 based on available information.The release of the data follows a Citibank report last week which said growth of close to 7% will only create 8 million to 9 million jobs in India, short of the 11 million to 12 million needed."Even 7% GDP growth might not be able to fulfil the job requirement over the next decade," Citi's chief India economist Samiran Chakraborty wrote in the note.In a separate statement, the federal labour department too countered Citi's report to say its estimates suggest an average of over 20 million employment opportunities per year were created between 2017-18 to 2021-22
 
The news published on the date July 08, 2024 02:38 PM IST with headline  India re-opens application window for PLI scheme for white goods is: 
 The Union Cabinet had given approval for the PLI Scheme for White Goods for manufacture of components and sub-assemblies of Air Conditioners (ACs) and LED Lights in April 2021 The Indian government has reopened application window for the product-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for white goods (ACs and LED Lights) for 90 days starting July 15,2024 to 12 October, 2024.The application window was reopened 'based on the appetite of the industry to invest more under the scheme, which is an outcome of the growing market and confidence generated due to manufacturing of key components of ACs and LED Lights in India," the government said in a statement.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe portal to apply is online is https://pliwhitegoods.ifciltd.com/. No application shall be accepted after the closure of the application window.So far, 66 applicants have applied to the PLI scheme with an investment to the tune of Rs 6,962 crore. For manufacturing components of Air conditioners (ACs) companies like Daikin, Voltas, Hindalco, Amber, Pg Technoplast, Epack, Mettube, LG, Blue Star, Johnson Hitachi, Panasonic, Haier, Midea, Havells, IFB, NIDEC, Lucas, Swaminathan, and Triton Valves Etc. have invested. Similarly, in manufacturing components of LED lights, companies like Dixon, R K Lighting, Radhika Opto, Surya, Orient, Signify, Crompton Greaves, Stove Kraft, Cosmo Films, Halonix, Chenfeng, Fulham, Adsun, Inventronix and LukeR etc. have invested."These investments will lead to manufacturing of components of Air Conditioners and LED Lights across the complete value chain including components which are not manufactured in India presently with sufficient quantity," it added.
 
The news published on the date July 08, 2024 02:05 PM IST with headline  India's tea prices soar as extreme weather slashes output is: 
 India's tea prices soar as extreme weather slashes output India's tea prices have been soaring and are expected to stay high as heatwaves and floods during the peak harvesting season slash output in key producing regions.The price rise could support the beleaguered Indian tea industry, which has been struggling with rising production costs amid a negligible rise in tea prices in the past decade.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Extreme weather events are hurting tea production. Excessive heat in May, followed by ongoing flooding in Assam, are reducing output," said Prabhat Bezboruah, a senior tea planter and former chairman of India's Tea Board.Production was also affected by the government's decision to ban 20 pesticides, Bezboruah said.India's tea production in May plunged more than 30% from a year earlier to 90.92 million kg, its lowest for that month in more than a decade, hurt by excessive heat and scant rainfall.
 
The news published on the date July 08, 2024 12:39 PM IST with headline  The US economic slowdown is looking more threatening is: 
 US economy On the surface, the US employment report for June looked pretty good. Some 206,000 jobs were added, which exceeded the 190,000 median estimate of more than five dozen economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Also, wage growth continued to moderate, easing concern that fast-rising earnings would underpin inflation. But peel back the curtains and you can clearly see why so many are worried the soft patch that the economy seems to have run into may get even softer — or worse.The best place to start is with the revisions to recent monthly labour data. The Labor Department said 111,000 fewer jobs were created in April and May than originally reported. What that means is that monthly payrolls expanded by an average of 177,000 in the second quarter, down from 267,000 in the first three months of the year.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdDigging a little deeper we find that the median time it takes for an unemployed worker to find a job rose to 9.8 weeks, the most since February 2022, according to Bloomberg News. On top of that, the number of temporary employees on payrolls tumbled by 48,900 in June, the most since April 2021. The takeaway here is that employers have little need for extra help because they see business demand softening. Those two data points help explain why continuing claims for unemployment applications, a proxy for the number of people receiving jobless benefits from the government, increased to 1.86 million in the week ended June 22, the highest since November 2021.There are lots of caveats here. Although the unemployment rate ticked above 4% for the first time since November 2021, coming in at 4.1%, it’s mostly rising for the right reasons. In other words, the gain is not so much due to companies laying off workers, but rather an expansion in the labour force. This is allowing employers to become more picky when hiring workers and helping to slow the gains in wages that have helped underpin inflation.Even so, it’s hard to avoid being concerned that the economy is in the midst of a sharp slowdown. Within the last two weeks alone, we have seen disappointing data from both the ISM manufacturing and services indexes, as well as big declines in new home sales and pending home sales that exceeded economists’ estimates. In fact, the numbers have been disappointing to a degree not seen since 2014, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In response, the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta’s widely followed GDPNow Index, which aims to track growth in real time, has dropped to 1.55%, the lowest reading since December and down from above 4% as recently as May.
 
The news published on the date July 08, 2024 12:38 PM IST with headline  Fewer women join better paying formal jobs in FY24, gig works see record rush is: 
 Low paying jobs record higehst growth for women The ratio of women joining better-paying formal jobs hit a three-year low in FY24, even as their participation in low-paying jobs scaled a seven-year high, according to a Moneycontrol analysis.The proportion of women enrolled in the Employees' Provident Fund (EPF) scheme declined to 19.6 percent in FY24 from 20.7 percent a year back and 21.4 percent in FY22. The ratio had dipped to 18.1 percent during the pandemic.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdNew enrollments under the less remunerative Employees' State Insurance Corporation, on the other hand, surged 21 percent as against a 19.6 percent rise a year ago.ESIC caters to lower-paying jobs and applies to establishments with more than 10 workers.
 
The news published on the date July 08, 2024 12:15 PM IST with headline  Jobs, rural India likely to be focus of new Modi government's first budget, says Goldman Sachs is: 
 Jobs, rural India likely to be focus of new Modi government's first budget, says Goldman Sachs The first budget by Prime Minister Narendra Modi's new government may tilt towards, but not pivot to welfare spending, with a focus on rural economy and job creation, economists at Goldman Sachs said in a note on Monday.The budget proposal for the financial year ending March 2025 will be presented on July 23, the government said over the weekend.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdGoldman economists expect the government to stick to its fiscal deficit target of 5.1% of GDP set in the interim budget but said it will likely make an "overarching statement" about long-term economic policy."We see an emphasis on job creation through labor-intensive manufacturing, credit for micro, small and medium enterprises, continued focus on services exports by expanding global capability centres, and a thrust on domestic food supply chain," Santanu Sengupta, chief India economist at the Wall Street bank wrote.Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party failed to win a majority on its own in national elections this year and returned to power with the help of allies. Post-poll surveys showed that unemployment and inflation were key concerns among votes, particularly outside of urban areas.
 
The news published on the date July 08, 2024 11:38 AM IST with headline  Mohamed El-Erian: What the Federal Reserve should put on the Jackson Hole agenda is: 
 Federal Reserve The writer is president of Queens’ College, Cambridge, and an adviser to Allianz and GramercyRemember the Asian financial crisis, the shock from the LTCM hedge fund blow-up, the Russian debt default and the Lehman collapse? They all came to a boil during summer.Yet when there are fewer financial fires to be put out, central banks have found the season to be a good time to take stock of where their policies stand and where they would lik
 
The news published on the date July 08, 2024 08:48 AM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Market Outlook | Market enters earnings season with strong momentum is: 
 While market breadth may not remain as strong as it has been, we expect the uptrend to continue unless we see a reversal in price action. Indian markets continued to trade higher despite increased volatility throughout the week. Global markets supported the bullish sentiment, leading to broader markets in India outperforming the benchmark index
 
The news published on the date July 08, 2024 08:38 AM IST with headline  Modi to strengthen ties with Russia without upsetting the West is: 
 File image HighlightsModi-Putin meeting is taking place on the day NATO will discuss the Ukraine issueThe US is threatening to impose sanctions on Indian companies doing business with RussiaModi would try to persuade Russia to buy more from India and supply the S-400 missile defence systemCrafting a common currency for India-Russia trade is easier said than don
 
The news published on the date July 08, 2024 07:51 AM IST with headline  MC Daily Monsoon Tracker: These 19 states are receiving normal rainfall is: 
 Rainfall surplus extends further India's rainfall surplus increased further as of July 7 as 19 states received normal rainfall and another seven received excess or large excess amounts compared to normal, according to data released by the Indian Meteorological Department.The rainfall surplus rose to 1.8 percent on July 7 compared with 0.8 percent on the previous day, with no state facing a rainfall deficit of over 50 percent for the first time in over a month.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRainfall over the last week has also helped restore reservoir levels. India’s reservoir level deficit narrowed to 10 percent compared with 17 percent last week.
 
The news published on the date July 08, 2024 06:48 AM IST with headline  India will fail to plug jobs gap even with 7% growth, Citi says is: 
 India will fail to plug jobs gap even with 7% growth, Citi says India will struggle to create enough jobs for its growing workforce over the next decade even if the economy grows at a rapid pace of 7%, Citigroup Inc. said, suggesting the world’s most-populous nation will need more concerted steps to boost employment and skills.Citi estimates India will need to create about 12 million jobs a year over the next decade to absorb the number of new entrants to the labor market. Based on a growth rate of 7%, India can only generate 8-9 million jobs a year, the bank’s economists Samiran Chakraborty and Baqar Zaidi wrote in a report this week.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe quality of jobs being created in India is another challenge, the economists said. An analysis of the official data showed about 46% of the workforce is still employed in agriculture, even though the sector contributes less than 20% to gross domestic product. Manufacturing accounted for 11.4% of total jobs in 2023, a lower share than in 2018, the figures show, a sign that the sector hasn’t bounced back since the pandemic.Also, fewer people are employed in the formal sector now than before Covid — the share was 25.7% in 2023, the lowest level in at least 18 years, Citi said. Only 21% of the workforce — or about 122 million people — in India have jobs that pay a salary or wages, compared with 24% before the pandemic. More than half of the 582 million workers in India are self-employed, the figures show.
 
The news published on the date July 07, 2024 11:58 AM IST with headline  Andhra Pradesh, Punjab see nearly 40% rise in fixed assets in 2022-23 is: 
 Capital formation rises in informal enterprises Informal sector units witnessed a rise in capital formation in 2022-23, with Andhra Pradesh and Punjab leading the charge, a Moneycontrol analysis of survey data released by the government on July 5 showed.While average fixed assets owned by an establishment across the country rose 13 percent in 2022-23, Andhra Pradesh and Punjab witnessed nearly a 40 percent jump during this period.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdInformal units are proprietorships or partnerships not registered under the Companies Act.The data will likely be used by the government to help determine calculations for the new GDP series.Of the 19 major states for which data was considered, eight saw their assets rise by over 20 percent, while four—Kerala, Delhi, Odisha, and Rajasthan—witnessed their asset value per establishment decline.
 
The news published on the date July 06, 2024 01:36 PM IST with headline  Informal firms in Goa, Maharashtra, and Karnataka more digitally connected than the rest of country is: 
 Goa, Karnataka, Maharashtra more connected The easy availability of data has increased reliance on the internet for informal firms across the country, with companies in Goa, Maharashtra, and Karnataka recording the highest usage, according to results of a government survey released on July 5.Informal or unincorporated sector firms are household firms or partnership establishments not registered under the Companies Act. The survey covers non-agricultural entities.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTwo in five companies in these three states used the internet for taking and placing orders or using UPI compared with nearly a fifth of the firms across the country in 2022-23.A Moneycontrol analysis shows that nine of the 36 states and Union territories had over 30 percent of informal firms using the Internet for entrepreneurial purposes, up from one in the previous year.
 
The news published on the date July 05, 2024 08:17 PM IST with headline  Internet usage jumps in informal sector companies: Govt data is: 
 Internet usage up in informal sector Internet usage by the informal sector for taking and placing orders, using UPI increased by almost 50 percent in 2022-23 compared with the previous year, according to the results of surveys released by the government on July 5.The share of companies using the internet for entrepreneurial purposes rose to 21.1 percent in 2022-23 compared with 13.9 percent in the previous year, according to the Annual Survey of Unincorporated Sector Enterprises (ASUSE) report.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdNearly one in three informal firms in urban areas used the internet in 2022-23, compared with one in five just a year ago. In the rural economy, the usage went up to 13.5 percent from 7.7 percent earlier.India has one of the lowest data costs in the world, which has led to a surge in internet usage.
 
The news published on the date July 05, 2024 03:50 PM IST with headline  The Reading List: July 5, 2024 is: 
 Articles and social media gems from the world of economy curated by our research and opinion teams. In a world strapped for time, we thought you may find it useful to have a selection of articles we read this past week. As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. Occasionally, we may stray from these subjects.These links may be from external websites we frequent o
 
The news published on the date July 05, 2024 03:48 PM IST with headline  Business in the Week Ahead (July 8-12, 2024) is: 
 Some key macro data that market participants will be eagerly monitoring next week. After a stellar two-day rally, the benchmark indices slipped a bit lower but maintained an intraday high on Friday. The bullish trend can be attributed to the strong global cues with both the US and the European markets registering gains.Indian benchmark indices have seen a major uptick since June 4 election results, Sensex breached 80,000 for the first time, while Nifty touched a fresh life-time high crossing 24,300.Former Managing Director of Sundaram Mutual Fund, Sunil Subramaniam, predict
 
The news published on the date July 16, 2024 04:36 PM IST with headline  Budget 2024: What Are The Pre-Budget Expectations Of The Agriculture Sector?
 
The news published on the date July 05, 2024 01:13 PM IST with headline  Govt makes ISI mark mandatory for stainless steel, aluminium utensils is: 
 Govt makes ISI mark mandatory for stainless steel, aluminium utensils The government has made it mandatory for stainless steel and aluminium kitchen utensils to conform to national quality standards, the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) said on Friday, in a move aimed at enhancing consumer safety and product quality.The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), under Ministry of Commerce and Industry, issued a Quality Control Order on March 14, making the ISI mark compulsory for these kitchen utensils.Story continues below AdvertisementIndian Standards Institution (ISI) mark is developed by BIS, assuring of product quality and safety.According to BIS, the order prohibits the manufacture, import, sale, distribution, storage, or exhibition for sale of any stainless steel or aluminium utensils that do not bear the BIS standard mark.Non-compliance with the order will attract penalties, underscoring the government's commitment to consumer safety and product integrity, it said in a statement.This development follows the BIS' recent formulation of comprehensive standards for kitchen items, including IS 14756:2022 for stainless steel and IS 1660:2024 for aluminium utensils.Standards cover material requirements, design specifications, and performance parameters.The government said this move will enhance consumer confidence and drive manufacturers towards adopting best practices
 
The news published on the date July 05, 2024 12:58 PM IST with headline  Naidu urges FM Sitharaman for financial rescue of debt-ridden Andhra Pradesh is: 
 Chandrababu Naidu meets FM Nirmala Sitharaman, seeks financial aid for debt-ridden AP Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu recently met with Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to discuss the state's financial challenges. Ahead of the Union Budget presentation, Naidu emphasized the need for increased financial aid for Andhra Pradesh, which is burdened with growing debt.During the meeting at North Block, Naidu presented a detailed memorandum outlining the state's urgent financial requirements. He highlighted various ongoing projects in Andhra Pradesh that require central assistance, including the Polavaram irrigation project and support for backward regions and the development of the new capital, Amaravati.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAndhra Pradesh's public debt has risen from 31.02% to 33.32% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) in recent years, indicating worsening fiscal health. Naidu also raised issues stemming from the state's bifurcation and sought resolutions for pending matters.Also Read: Budget is Chandrababu Naidu's Christmas, FM is Santa ClausSources indicated that Sitharaman listened attentively to Naidu's concerns and assured him that she would consider Andhra Pradesh's demands within the constraints of the national budget. This meeting holds significance as it precedes the Union Budget 2024-25.
 
The news published on the date July 05, 2024 11:21 AM IST with headline  Why disconnecting global trade from China is so hard is: 
 China accounts for more than 40% of global chemical production. A US-led effort to gradually disconnect trade ties with China, rising costs, and a broader understanding of the need to diversify production is driving manufacturers to invest in alternative locations. But migrating entire supply chains away from the world’s second-largest economy is extremely challenging, which is why governments and executives need to pick up the pace, or they may find themselves caught short in a time of need.At the recent Computex trade show in Taipei, exhibitors ranging from power-tool suppliers and auto-electronics vendors to server and laptop makers, told me almost identical stories. They’re moving operations out of China and into Southeast Asia, largely at the behest of major foreign clients. Thailand, Vietnam and Taiwan are the focus of new investments. But they also warn that once the initial migration phases are complete, subsequent decoupling will be much harder.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAssembly of final products is the easiest because it’s labour intensive, and the equipment used is simple. Then comes semi-completed manufacturing, such as product housings and casings. Such transfer is quick and cheap, and well underway. Mexico is now the largest source of imports to the US, while factories in India, Vietnam and Thailand are taking share from Chinese counterparts.If we look only at final assembly, it’s easy to conclude that full supply chain migration is achievable.But most of the hard work and value-add happens many steps before final production, using specialized, expensive equipment operated by well-trained technicians. Plastic and metal molding is one example. This phase relies heavily on networks of suppliers close at hand. Over the past two decades China has built up considerable capacity and expertise in the crucial and hidden ingredient of all industries: chemicals. Hundreds of factories dotted around the country specialize in semi-processed compounds known as intermediates.
 
The news published on the date July 05, 2024 09:48 AM IST with headline  Budget 2024 finds India in a sweet spot, thanks to unanticipated revenue boost is: 
 Any pressure on increasing revenue expenditure growth would need to be balanced with adjustments in capital expenditure growth. The final 2024-25 budget is due to be presented later this month. Compared to the interim budget, the fiscal situation of the Government of India (GoI) appears to have improved marginally.GoI’s gross tax revenue (GTR) growth for 2023-24 turned out to be 13.5% implying an annual buoyancy of 1.4. In contrast, the interim budget, according to the RE for 2023-24, had considered a growth of 12.5%. This higher growth will give an improved base magnitude for GoI’s GTR for projecting the tax revenues for 2024-25, which in turn will depend on the likely performance of macro parameters particularly the nominal GDP growth.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdGrowth and revenue prospects in 2024-25According to the RBI, the real GDP growth for 2024-25 is estimated at 7.2%. To derive the nominal GDP growth, we need to formulate some idea about the implicit price deflator (IPD)-based inflation. This was unduly depressed at 1.3% in 2023-24 due to relatively low level of WPI inflation which was at (-)0.7%.The IPD-based inflation is a weighted average of WPI and CPI inflation with the relative weight of the former being higher.
 
The news published on the date July 05, 2024 07:24 AM IST with headline  India’s banks know climate is their biggest threat: Mihir Sharma is: 
 India’s banks know climate is their biggest threat: Mihir Sharma Twice a year, the Reserve Bank of India reviews the stability of the country’s financial system. Its latest report made for good headlines: The proportion of loans that have gone sour is at a multiyear low, and likely to decline further.But buried in the report is a warning from the very institutions the central bank is charged with regulating. Market participants responded to a survey asking what they saw as the biggest contributors to systemic risk. While they downplayed the usual concerns — asset quality, interest rate risk, capital outflows — one particular threat loomed larger than ever before: climate change. In fact, respondents named it for the first time as the greatest source of systemic risk to the Indian financial system.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThey’re not wrong to worry. It isn’t just that India, according to the Network for Greening the Financial System, will see sharply lower growth unless temperature rises are controlled. That growth will be more variable and subject to sharper shocks, including those from weird weather and delayed monsoons. This worries the country’s financial arteries; so does the uncertain fate of sectors such as construction, cement and energy, to which they are deeply exposed.Indian regulators have been slow to respond. It wasn’t until earlier this year that the RBI finally released a draft framework that would require financial institutions to devise and disclose their strategies to mitigate climate-related risk. Even then, the timeline for adopting the new rules was exceedingly generous. For regular Indian banks, they will only fully come into force for the financial year that ends in March 2028.What explains the lethargy? Part of the problem is no doubt the bureaucratic inertia that bedevils all policymaking in India. Regulators are scared of stepping on each other’s toes, and on the government’s.
 
The news published on the date July 04, 2024 06:34 PM IST with headline  Bad idea to include petroleum in GST, says former chief economic advisor Arvind Subramanian is: 
 Subramanian highlighted that cess should be included in the regular rate structure The inclusion of petroleum in the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime would be a bad idea, as it is not politically advisable to ask states to give up more sovereignty, said Arvind Subramanian, former chief economic advisor of India, at an event organised by Centre for Social and Economic Progress on July 4.“There is not going to be GST rate rationalisation; we are going backwards,” he added.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSubramanian highlighted that cess should be included in the regular rate structure.“The default option is to absorb cess in the regular rate structure so that it is available for redistribution,” he pointed out.Cess, at present, yields around 0.5 percent of the GDP.
 
The news published on the date July 04, 2024 02:00 PM IST with headline  Onion price surge prompts Centre to work out preemptive steps: Reports is: 
 Most of North India’s onions come from the Nashik, Pune, and Ahmednagar regions. The government is likely to take some preemptive measures to prevent onion prices from simmering like last year.A supply shortage from Nashik, the main production hub for the crop in India, has prompted the government to review the stock limits and make some declarations, an official who attended a meeting on issue told business daily Mint. Although the situation is not critical yet, the government is keen to avoid a potential shortfall and price hikes, the Mint reported.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdDespite a robust harvest, fewer onion trucks are arriving at Delhi’s Azadpur mandi, the country's largest vegetable wholesale market, raising concerns about possible price spikes in the coming weeks. The Mint report, quoting an official speaking on condition of anonymity, mentioned that if the supply shortage persists, the government may ask traders to declare their stocks, followed by the imposition of stock limits if necessary. These discussions are still in their early stages, with decisions to be made based on future developments.Also Read | Govt procures 71,000 tonnes of onion for buffer stock, retail prices to ease: ReportMost of North India’s onions come from the Nashik, Pune and Ahmednagar regions. A prolonged supply shortage could drive up prices, an outcome the government is determined to avoid, especially with several Assembly elections approaching. High onion prices have historically influenced the voting behaviour, the report added.
 
The news published on the date July 04, 2024 11:44 AM IST with headline  Government plans 50% boost to rural housing subsidies in Budget 2024: Report is: 
 Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is expected to unveil the detailed plan in the budget later this month. The government is likely to increase subsidies on rural housing in the upcoming Budget 2024 by up to 50 percent from the previous year to more than $6.5 billion, news agency Reuters has said.The move comes amid rural distress, spurred by higher food inflation and sluggish growth in farmers' incomes, the report cited sources as saying.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIf approved, the increase would mark the largest annual rise in Centre’s spending on the rural housing programme since its inception in 2016.Moneycontrol could not verify the report independently.The government aims to enhance spending on rural infrastructure, including village roads and a jobs programmes to assist millions of youth employed in agriculture due to limited manufacturing opportunities, the report added.Also Read | Budget 2024: Middle-class housing scheme to follow interest subvention modelShares of Housing and Urban Development Corp surged up to 9 percent in response to the report, while Aadhar Housing Finance and GIC Housing Finance also saw gains of around 4.5 percent.Under the PM Awas Yojana (Rural) housing scheme, the government targets constructing an additional 20 million houses in the coming years, supplementing aid provided for over 26 million homes for poor households in the past eight years, the report said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read | Budget 2024: Microfinance industry seeks special funding, tax relief on affordable housingFinance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is expected to unveil the detailed plan during the budget, which is to be presented later this month.Economists and industry leaders have advocated for increased rural spending to boost consumer demand, particularly as private consumption lags behind economic growth.Sources indicated that the subsidies for rural housing could exceed 550 billion rupees ($6.58 billion), up from 320 billion rupees last fiscal year.Also Read | The finance ministry declined to comment on the spending plans when approached by Reuters.The rural development ministry proposes to raise subsidies for housing units to about Rs 2 lakh ($2,395) per unit, up from Rs 1.2 lakh, citing rising raw material costs
 
The news published on the date July 04, 2024 08:52 AM IST with headline  PM Modi’s budget to send India’s soaring stocks higher, survey says is: 
 PM Modi’s budget to send India’s soaring stocks higher, survey says India’s $5 trillion stock market stands to gain as much as 20% for the entire year, buoyed by government spending and continued momentum in corporate earnings, according to market watchers.The upcoming government budget will likely boost consumer spending and infrastructure building, which bode well for businesses, strategists and investors surveyed by Bloomberg said. More than half of the 24 respondents estimated that the NSE Nifty 50 Index may advance up to 26,000 points by the end of 2024, while one predicted the gauge can climb even more.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe benchmark index has risen 12% so far this year to a record.A diminished majority for Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party in the recent elections has prompted investors to raise bets in the consumer sector on expectations the government will shift toward more populist measures to shore up support. An early monsoon also boosted the prospects for companies involved with crops such as rice, corn and soybeans.“Corporate earnings for the year gone by had been robust on the back of margin tailwinds and may grow above trend in financial year 2025, keeping India’s medium-term growth story intact,” said Bino Pathiparampil, head of research at Mumbai-based Elara Capital.
 
The news published on the date July 04, 2024 08:29 AM IST with headline  India's solar output grows at slowest pace in six years in first half of 2024 is: 
 India's solar output grows at slowest pace in six years in first half of 2024 India's solar power generation grew at the slowest pace in six years in the first half of 2024, an analysis of data from the federal grid regulator showed, as the country further stepped up reliance on coal to address surging power demand.Electricity generated from coal grew 10.4% during six months ended June 30, a review of daily load despatch data from Grid-India showed, outpacing overall power generation growth of 9.7% during the period.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSolar power generation in the third-largest producer of electricity from the sun rose to 63.6 billion kilowatt-hours (kWh) in the first half of 2024, the data showed, up 14.7% compared with the same period last year and 18.5% in the calendar year 2023.The world's fastest growing major economy has prioritised coal to address a surge in power demand in recent years, with coal-fired power output last year outpacing renewable energy output for the first time since the Paris accord in 2015.The south Asian nation's fuel use patterns since emerging from the COVID-19 pandemic have largely been in line with trends in the region, with Indonesia, Philippines, Vietnam and Bangladesh all firing up coal for generating inexpensive power.
 
The news published on the date July 03, 2024 08:29 PM IST with headline  Heavy industries and steel minister requests plan for Vizag Steel revival is: 
 In his review meeting with the board of the public sector enterprise, Kumaraswamy instructed Vizag Steel officials to increase steel production to get out of the financial rut Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × Heavy Industries and Steel Minister HD Kumaraswamy reviewed the progress of Vizag Steel on July 3, noting that the ministry would work out a plan to infuse funds once the company works towards increasing production and capacity.Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, or Vizag Steel, is run by the corporate entity Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe minister also requested a comprehensive plan to revive the struggling entity.In his meeting with the board of the public sector enterprise, Kumaraswamy instructed the officials to increase steel production to get out of the financial rut.India has set a target of producing 300 million tonnes of steel annually.
 
The news published on the date July 03, 2024 06:26 PM IST with headline  US weekly jobless claims rise labor market slows is: 
 US weekly jobless claims rise labor market slows The number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits increased last week, pointing to easing labor market conditions.Initial claims for state unemployment benefits rose 4,000 to a seasonally adjusted 238,000 for the week ended June 29, the Labor Department said on Wednesday. The report was released a day early because of the Independence Day holiday on Thursday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEconomists polled by Reuters had forecast 235,000 claims in the latest week.Claims have moved to the upper end of their 194,000-243,000 range of this year, in part because of a rise in layoffs as higher interest rates dampen demand as well as difficulties adjusting the data for seasonal fluctuations during holidays.Volatility could persist after the July 4 holiday. Auto manufacturers typically idle assembly plants for retooling in the summer, but the timing is uncertain.
 
The news published on the date July 03, 2024 04:57 PM IST with headline  Can’t find a job after graduating? Move to Bolivia is: 
 If the job market seems impenetrable, take the foot-in-the-door job that no one else wants. It’s a challenging time to be a college graduate entering the labour force. Outside of the early pandemic months, the ratio of new hires to total employees is near the lowest in the past decade. Many companies recruited too heavily during the frenzied pandemic economy, and now they’ve slowed hiring, particularly in well-paying fields such as finance and technology.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhile companies aren’t firing many people, it’s clearly getting tougher to be on the outside of the labour market looking in, especially as a college graduate with high expectations and little concrete experience. On Handshake, a search platform for college students, internship listings were down more than 7% in the past 12 months compared with the same period the previous year. Each internship received an average of 93 applications, up from 53 the previous year, according to a Handshake analysis provided to Bloomberg News’ Jo Constantz. Business Insider reported that Goldman Sachs Group Inc. received 315,126 applicants for just 2,700 summer internship spots, a record-low 0.9% acceptance rate that makes it significantly more selective than, for instance, Harvard University.Instead of despairing, recent grads and rising seniors can improve their employment prospects by staying open-minded and nimble.Consider my experience in the late aughts. After working as a paralegal and toying with law school, I started seriously looking for a journalism job around the time the US was entering a recession in 2008 — an infamously bad labour market. When an acquaintance of a guy who knew another guy in my alumni network told me that Bloomberg News was looking for a freelance economics and government reporter in La Paz, Bolivia, I took it — basically because it sounded like a cool adventure. (I had just intermediate Spanish and had never been to the coup-prone Andean nation, but I got the impression that there weren’t many other applicants.) Within 18 months, it led to a full-time job in Mexico City; another job writing about big M&A deals in Brazil; a management position in Miami; and, ultimately, the gig writing this column.
 
The news published on the date July 03, 2024 04:37 PM IST with headline  Crypto exchange CoinDCX acquires Dubai's BitOasis is: 
 Crypto exchange CoinDCX acquires Dubai's BitOasis India-based crypto exchange CoinDCX COIN.NS has acquired Middle East-focused crypto platform BitOasis, the two companies said in a joint statement on Wednesday.The firms did not disclose the transaction value, but BitOasis said in a separate statement that CoinDCX, which had already acquired a stake in the business last year, now owns the full share capital of the Dubai-based company.Story continues below AdvertisementBitOasis added that the brand and leadership team would remain unchanged following the deal, which is set to help the firm strengthen its position in the region - where it serves 15 countries - and enhance its services.The United Arab Emirates is aiming to become a global centre for the crypto industry and Dubai, considered the Gulf's tourism and business hub, set up watchdog VARA in 2022 to regulate the emerging virtual asset sector.Founded in 2016, BitOasis provides broker-dealer services to qualified retail and institutional investors under its minimum viable product (MVP) operational licence provided by VARA. It recently obtained a similar licence from the Central Bank of Bahrain
 
The news published on the date July 03, 2024 04:13 PM IST with headline  Rupee falls 4 paise to close at 83.52 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee falls 4 paise to close at 83.52 against US dollar The rupee depreciated 4 paise to settle at 83.52 (provisional) against the US dollar on Wednesday, weighed down by elevated crude oil prices.Forex traders said the Indian rupee depreciated on strength in crude oil prices, which touched a two-week high on Tuesday. However, a firm tone in domestic markets and favourable macroeconomic data cushioned the downside.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 83.51 and hit the intraday high of 83.49 and a low of 83.56 against the American currency during the session.It finally settled at 83.52 (provisional) against the dollar, 4 paise lower than its previous close.On Tuesday, the rupee depreciated 4 paise to settle at 83.48 against the US dollar."We expect the rupee to trade with a slight positive bias on softening of the US dollar and rise in global risk sentiments. Strength in the domestic markets may also support sentiments," said Anuj Choudhary, Research Analyst at Sharekhan by BNP Paribas "However, elevated crude oil price and FII outflows may cap sharp upside. Traders may take cues from ADP non-farm employment, weekly unemployment claims, ISM services PMI, Challenger job cuts, trade balance and factory orders data from the US. Investors may remain cautious ahead of FOMC meeting minutes," Choudhary said.Meanwhile, the dollar index, which gauges the greenback's strength against a basket of six currencies, was trading 0.10 per cent lower at 105.61.Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, were trading 0.09 per cent higher at USD 86.32 per barrel.Story continues below AdvertisementIn the domestic equity market, Sensex hit the historic 80,000-mark and Nifty scaled a fresh lifetime high. The 30-share BSE Sensex finally ended the day 545.35 points, or 0.69 per cent, up at 79,986.80 points. The broader NSE Nifty settled 162.65 points, or 0.67 per cent, higher at 24,286.50 points.Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital markets on Tuesday, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 2,000.12 crore, according to exchange data.On the domestic macroeconomic front, India's services sector growth quickened in June from May's five-month low.The seasonally adjusted HSBC India Services Business Activity Index rose from 60.2 in May to 60.5 in June, pointing to a sharp expansion in output
 
The news published on the date July 03, 2024 02:13 PM IST with headline  India could grow over 8% if it resolves infra bottlenecks: S&P analyst is: 
 GDP growth could be higher The Indian economy could grow by over 8 percent without overheating if it resolves infrastructural bottlenecks, YeePharn Phua, Director of sovereign ratings, S&P Global Ratings, said on Wednesday.“This will help expand the middle class and help attract more investments to the economy,” he highlighted.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdS&P Global Ratings expects the Indian economy to grow 7 percent over the medium term. For the current fiscal year, the global rating agency forecasts a growth of 6.8 percent.“India is recouping some of the lost ground, growing faster than what we had expected four years ago,” said Luis Kuijs, Chief Economist, Asia Pacific, at S&P Global Ratings.Phua pointed out that a rating upgrade for the economy was contingent upon the general government fiscal deficit falling below 7 percent of the GDP.
 
The news published on the date July 03, 2024 01:28 PM IST with headline  Climate change is pushing up food prices — and worrying central banks is: 
 Representative image Susannah Savage in LondonSixty years ago, when Giuseppe Divita’s grandparents opened their olive mill in Chiaramonte Gulfi, Sicily, the Italian island’s climate was ideal for producing the fruit.This is no longer the case, says Divita, who, alongside his brother, runs Oleificio Guccione, which today has its own groves as well as the mill. With average annual temperatures climbing and rainfall dwindling, growing olives and turning them into oil is becoming increasingly difficult.Throughout the Mediterranean, reduced yields an
 
The news published on the date July 03, 2024 01:16 PM IST with headline  18 major states to see up to 10% jump in revenue in FY25: Crisil is: 
 Rising revenues for Indian states India’s major 18 states, which account for 90 percent of the country's output, are likely to see their revenue grow faster, between 8 and 10 percent, in FY25 to Rs 38 lakh crore, ratings agency Crisil said on July 3.“The biggest impetus to revenue growth will continue to come from aggregate state GST collections that, after growing around 18 percent on-year last fiscal, will climb up another 13-14 percent in the current fiscal,” said Anuj Sethi, senior director, Crisil Ratings.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndian states’ revenues grew 7.5 percent in the previous year.Excise revenues would remain stable at 10 percent of the total revenue, with petrol sales raking in 7-8 percent and grants accounting for 10-11 percent, the report said.Moneycontrol analysis found that the average excise duty to own tax revenue ratio for 19 of the largest states and UTs is expected to be 13.7 percent in FY24.
 
The news published on the date July 03, 2024 11:02 AM IST with headline  Service activity rises to 60.5 in June on spate of fresh orders, growth in overseas sales is: 
 service activity picks up India’s services sector activity reached 60.5 in June, recovering from a five-month low of 60.2 in the previous month, on the back of a rise in new orders and expansion in international sales, according to a private survey released on July 3.The HSBC India Services Business Activity Index has stayed above 60-mark since the start of 2024.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“Activity growth in India’s service sector accelerated in June, with the index rising by 0.3ppt to 60.5, led by an increase in both domestic and international orders,” said Pranjul Bhandari, chief India economist at HSBC.Better demand conditions also helped firms step up hiring. The pace of employment generation rose to the fastest level in nearly two years.
 
The news published on the date July 03, 2024 09:34 AM IST with headline  Decoding Economics: The power of narratives is: 
 - Speculators have long known that stories have the power to move markets. There are innumerable examples of stories being concocted about a company to boost the price of a stock, so that canny operators can unload it on gullible investors. What else is the history of the Tulip bubble or the South Sea bubble other than the selling of stories that are too good to be true? But can narratives impact the real economy too?A recent NBE
 
The news published on the date July 03, 2024 08:17 AM IST with headline  One ratio would determine how banks are rerated in FY25 is: 
 Credit-to-deposit ratio will determine how banks fare HighlightsAs of March, banks’ credit-to-deposit ratio was 80 percent, a decade highIncremental CD ratio has surged to 113 percent in FY24, indicating banks had to borrow from market to meet loan demandRBI stability report states that past episodes of high credit-deposit gap results in loan growth moderationAnalysts at Nomura believe high CD ratio would be a key constraint on banks in FY2
 
The news published on the date July 03, 2024 08:19 AM IST with headline  Monsoon: June rainfall disappoints but its July that’s crucial for food inflation is: 
 A good rainfall this month can change everything. Monsoon 2024 started on a strong note but by the end of June 2024, there was a deficiency of 11%. This is the third year of deficient rainfall in June. If the forecast of IMD for subsequent months turns out to be correct and the distribution of rains is not skewed, overall production of kharif crops should still turn out to be good.Since the monsoon first hits the southern peninsula, there is much higher rainfall in southern states in June (183.9 mm) as compared to northwest India which receives only 52.6 mm in June. The good news is that southern peninsula has received 14 percent excess rainfall. Even though Kerala (-25%) and coastal Karnataka (-14%) experienced deficient rainfall but the actual rainfall in these regions is quite high for kharif crops.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdReservoir Water Level A ConcernHowever, the water level in reservoirs in southern states continues to be below average.According the Reservoir Storage Bulletin of Central Water Commission, the total live storage available in these reservoirs was 8.322 BCM on 27th June 2024. This was 16% of live storage capacity of these reservoirs. This is lower than last year’s level of 20% and normal storage level of 22% (of the last ten years).
 
The news published on the date July 02, 2024 11:27 PM IST with headline  India’s debt high, but sustainable, NCAER Director General Poonam Gupta says is: 
 Debt high but sustainable India’s general government debt remains high at 82 percent, but is sustainable owing to high growth and a larger share of local currency debt, Poonam Gupta, Director General, NCAER said on July 2.Even though the debt levels of states are expected to increase further, Gupta noted that the most indebted states, like Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, do not face debt sustainability issues as the guarantor of debt, and cannot hold debt in foreign currency or floating rate.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“In a handful of states like Punjab and Himachal, Debt to GDP ratio could increase to 50 per cent,” Gupta noted.Punjab, Himachal, and Bihar were the most indebted states in 2022-23.“More prudent states need a better deal. They are de facto subsidising the more indebted states. The Finance Commission may reward such states for their fiscal prudence, and incentivise the profligate ones to become fiscally more responsible,” she added.
 
The news published on the date July 02, 2024 08:02 PM IST with headline  US job openings rise to 8.1 million despite higher interest rates is: 
 US job openings rise to 8.1 million despite higher interest rates U.S. job openings rose slightly to 8.1 million in May despite the impact of higher interest rates intended to cool the labor market.Vacancies rose from a revised 7.9 million in April, the first reading below 8 million since February 2021, the Labor Department reported Tuesday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdLayoffs rose slightly, and the number of Americans quitting their jobs, a sign of confidence in their prospects, was basically unchanged.The U.S. economy and job market have been remarkably resilient in the face of the Federal Reserve's campaign to raise interest rates to rein in inflation. The Fed hiked its benchmark rate 11 times in 2022 and 2023, lifting it to a 23-year high.Defying expectations of a recession, the U.S. economy kept growing and employers kept hiring.
 
The news published on the date July 02, 2024 07:47 PM IST with headline  Fed Chair Jerome Powell: US inflation is slowing again, though it isn't yet time to cut rates is: 
 Fed Chair Jerome Powell: US inflation is slowing again, though it isn't yet time to cut rates Inflation in the United States is slowing again after higher readings earlier this year, Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell said Tuesday, while adding that more such evidence would be needed before the Fed would cut interest rates.After some persistently high inflation reports at the start of 2024, Powell said, the data for April and May "do suggest we are getting back on a disinflationary path."Story continues below AdvertisementSpeaking in a panel discussion at a monetary policy conference in Sintra, Portugal, Powell said Fed officials still want to see annual price growth slow further toward their 2% target before they would feel confident of having fully defeated high inflation."We just want to understand that the levels that we're seeing are a true reading of underlying inflation," he added
 
The news published on the date July 02, 2024 07:00 PM IST with headline  CFA level II pass rate spikes to 59%, the highest since 1998 is: 
 The pass rate for the second level of the chartered financial analyst exam jumped to the highest in more than a quarter century, boosted by a smaller number of candidates who had deferred their tests.In May, 59% of candidates passed the Level II test, up from the 44% inEC November and August and 52% in May last year, the CFA Institute said Tuesday. The latest results were well above the 10-year average of 45% and the lows from 2021, when pandemic-spurred test-taking disruptions hurt success rates. It’s the highest pass rate since 1998, when it hit 62%.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“Over time, we have seen occasional pass-rate spikes; however, the exam difficulty remains consistent,” Chris Wiese, managing director for education at the institute, said in a statement. The institute also saw less candidates who had previously deferred taking the exam sit for Level II, which “positively impacted the pass rate,” he said. Pass rate for the May exam climbed after hitting pandemic lows due to disruptionFirst-time testers scored significantly above the average pass rate, at 67%, while those who had deferred the exam had an average passing rate of 39%, the institute said in a statement. The latest results mirror the trend seen in other levels of the exam, which shows a lower success rate among candidates who defer an exam.
 
The news published on the date July 02, 2024 06:52 PM IST with headline  JPMorgan’s Kelly says only a bear-market ‘shock’ can upend tech is: 
 JPMorgan’s Kelly says only a bear-market ‘shock’ can upend tech The outsized sway of technology giants over US stocks is likely to persist, absent a major market rout along the lines of what investors endured in 2022, says JPMorgan Asset Management’s David Kelly.The firm’s chief global market strategist is among Wall Street pros who expect earnings growth in the S&P 500 Index will broaden beyond the tech behemoths by year-end. But in his view, it likely won’t be enough to close the wide performance gap between those megacap shares and the rest of the US equity benchmark.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdDavid KellyThat means an extreme blow to market sentiment would be needed to derail the flow of cash into the soaring Big Tech names that have led the market’s advance in 2024, said Kelly, whose firm manages about $3 trillion. Two years ago, for example, tech shares were crushed by the Federal Reserve’s aggressive tightening, and slumped more than the broader market.“When you have the next bear market, then I think the highest-flying equities are the ones that are going to be most beaten up as indeed they were in 2022,” Kelly said in an interview. “You have to have a shock to market sentiment in order to disrupt the pattern we’re seeing in terms of how people are deploying their money.”
 
The news published on the date July 02, 2024 05:54 PM IST with headline  India's GDP will reach $4 trillion this year, Sanjeev Sanyal tells Cambridge event is: 
 Currently, in dollar terms, India's economy is the fifth largest in the world, at $3.7 trillion in nominal terms. India's economy is poised to reach the $4 trillion GDP milestone this year, at par with that of Japan's economic size, Sanjeev Sanyal, Member of the Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister said on July 2, speaking at the Cambridge India Conference event in UK.In a dialogue at the University of Cambridge, Sanyal highlighted India's fast pace of growth last year, when it grew by 8.2 percent, and said the country is anticipating a growth rate of 7 percent, which should be higher than all major economies.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdCurrently, in dollar terms, India's economy is the fifth largest in the world, at $3.7 trillion in nominal terms."After liberalisation, it took us 16-17 years to cross the first trillion dollars mark. It took another 7 years to reach the $2 trillion mark, which happened in 2014-15. It took another 7 years to hit the $3 trillion mark in 2021-22. It should have taken 5 years but we lost two years to Covid-19. In just three years, we will cross $4 trillion. Now we will need only two years to cross the $5 trillion unless some major unseen shock happens," Sanjeev Sanyal said.India is expected to overtake Japan and Germany by 2027, to emerge as the third largest economy in the world.
 
The news published on the date July 02, 2024 05:38 PM IST with headline  MC Analysis: MP, Maharashtra biggest GST gainers in post-Covid period is: 
 Tax buoyancy of states improved Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra have witnessed the highest gains in tax buoyancy post the introduction of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime in 2017, according to a Moneycontrol analysis of tax collection data for pre-GST years before 2017 and post-Covid period of FY22-24.Tax buoyancy, or the ratio of growth of GST collections to nominal output—the value of total goods and services produced in the economy—increased to 2.1 for Madhya Pradesh post-Covid (FY22-24) compared with 0.7 between FY14 and FY17. In simple terms, Madhya Pradesh’s ability to collect taxes tripled after the introduction of the GST regime. In the case of Maharashtra, the jump was nearly four times.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdGST was implemented in July 2017, with a central and state component along with an integrated GST, which is shared between the Centre and the states. The analysis includes IGST revenues allocated to the states.It's not just Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra that have seen substantial gains in tax buoyancy. Tamil Nadu and Delhi also witnessed significant improvements during this period. Tamil Nadu’s tax buoyancy jumped 197 percent during this period, whereas Delhi’s tax buoyancy ratio increased 134 percent.While the increase in tax efficiency and responsiveness between the pre-GST and post-COVID period was highest for MP and Maharashtra, Punjab retained its position as the state with the highest average tax buoyancy between FY22 and FY24. Punjab’s tax buoyancy was 2.3 in FY24, 2 in FY23 and 2.7 in FY22.
 
The news published on the date July 02, 2024 04:11 PM IST with headline  Rupee falls 6 paise to close at 83.50 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee falls 6 paise to close at 83.50 against US dollar The rupee depreciated 6 paise to settle at 83.50 (provisional) against the US dollar on Tuesday, weighed down by a strong greenback in the overseas market and elevated global crude oil prices.Besides, a muted trend in domestic equities and foreign fund outflows dented investor sentiments, forex traders said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 83.51 and hit the intraday high of 83.47 and a low of 83.56 against the American currency during the session.It finally settled at 83.50 (provisional) against the dollar, 6 paise lower than its previous close.On Monday, the rupee depreciated 10 paise to settle at 83.44 against the US dollar.
 
The news published on the date July 02, 2024 03:45 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Will IT earnings turn the corner in the June quarter? is: 
 Analysts do not see a major downside risk to IT earnings. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIT services companies are set to kick-start the June 2024 quarter (Q1 FY25) earnings season and predictably expectations are building up. The NSE IT index is up 1.6 percent in Tuesday trade. Analysts expect an improvement in sequential revenue growth rates, breaking from the recent trend of sales deceleration. There will be exceptions such as HCL Technologies which is estimated to see a notable reduction in sequential revenues.“We believe Q1 FY25 will be a decent quarter and with (sequential) growth for 9 out of 11 coverage companies,” Nirmal Bang Institutional Equities said in a note. Revenues of the sector are expected to be driven by the execution and ramp-up of the recently won contracts and seasonal strength in the business. Accenture, which released results earlier, reported healthy order inflows for the quarter ending May 2024.Yet, analyst estimates as of now are indicating only an incremental improvement in revenues, not a major rebound in growth rates. As we pointed out earlier, a substantial gap has emerged between order inflows and revenue conversion. Clients have paused large transformation projects and slowed discretionary IT spends. Accenture narrowed the revenue guidance it gave earlier for FY24 ending August, implying an unchanged outlook.
 
The news published on the date July 02, 2024 09:15 AM IST with headline  Manufacturers boost inventory by 20% in expectation of busy festival season: Report is: 
 The Meteorological Department's prediction of an above-normal monsoon has further bolstered expectations, with hopes for improved agricultural output and rural incomes contributing to overall economic growth. Manufacturers of smartphones, refrigerators, wearables and two-wheelers are increasing their inventory by up to 20 percent from the previous year in expectation of a busy festival season, The Economic Times has reported.The move comes as industry players anticipate a strong demand recovery, buoyed by favourable factors such as a promising monsoon and stable inflation.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdKamal Nandi, business head at Godrej Appliances, said there is pent-up demand in rural India which would be unleashed with the onset of the monsoon.Rural consumers have been relatively restrained in spending over the past five years, particularly since the onset of Covid-19, while urban areas continue to witness a robust trend towards premium products, Nandi said.Most companies are gearing up to operate at full production capacity starting July, with preparations underway for the festival season, beginning with Onam in September.
 
The news published on the date July 02, 2024 09:39 AM IST with headline  Bank for International Settlements on what could go wrong for the global economy is: 
 On balance, globally, inflation is continuing to decline towards targets, economic activity and the financial system have proved remarkably resilient HighlightsThe BIS’s base case is a smooth landingBut it flags risks both to inflation and growthInflation in services, if it reverts to pre-pandemic trends, could result in higher overall inflationWage pressures too could riseFiscal pressures, low productivity growth could also lead to higher inflationAs excess savings run out, growth could taper and financial stress riseThe report highlights potential risks from commercial real estate and private credit marketsBoth monetary and fiscal policy should be conservativ
 
The news published on the date July 01, 2024 10:49 PM IST with headline  Govt hikes windfall tax on crude oil to Rs 6,000 per tonne from Rs 3,250 is: 
 The Indian government has raised the windfall tax on petroleum crude to 6,000 rupees ($71.91) per metric ton from 3,250 rupees, with effect from July 2, according to a notification issued on Monday. The Indian government has raised the windfall tax on petroleum crude to 6,000 rupees per metric ton from 3,250 rupees, with effect from July 2, according to a notification issued on Monday. The Special Additional Excise Duty (SAED) on the export of diesel, petrol, and ATF is to continue at nil.Earlier on June 15, the government has reduced windfall tax on domestically-produced crude oil to Rs 3,250 per tonne from Rs 5,200. The tax is levied in the form of Special Additional Excise Duty (SAED).Story continues below AdvertisementIndia first imposed windfall profit taxes on July 1, 2022, joining a host of nations that tax supernormal profits of energy companies. The tax rates are reviewed every fortnight based on average oil prices in the previous two weeks
 
The news published on the date July 01, 2024 08:43 PM IST with headline  Economy humming in Q1FY25, shows data is: 
 For the quarter, GST collections at Rs 5.57 lakh crore were 10.2 percent higher during Q1FY24. High-frequency data for June, released on July 1, showed that the economy will likely keep growing over 7 percent for a fifth consecutive quarter in Q1FY25.“Available high-frequency data for the first quarter of 2024-25 indicate that the Indian economy is well on its way to meeting RBI’s GDP growth projection of 7.3 percent for Q1 of 2024-25,” said DK Srivastava, chief policy advisor, EY India.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSources told Moneycontrol that GST collections likely surged eight percent in June to Rs 1.74 lakh crore, while manufacturing activity picked up after falling to a three-month in the previous month.For the quarter, GST collections at Rs 5.57 lakh crore were 10.2 percent higher during Q1FY24.“The June 2024 GST collection of Rs 1.74 lakh crore is a strong indicator of a booming domestic consumption sector. This marks an impressive four-month streak where collections have exceeded Rs 1.5 lakh crore, bringing the year-to-date total to a remarkable Rs 5.57 crore,” said Saurabh Agarwal, tax partner, EY India.
 
The news published on the date July 01, 2024 07:36 PM IST with headline  GST collections rise nearly 8% YoY to Rs 1.74 lakh crore in June: Sources is: 
 India’s goods and services tax (GST) collections rose 7.7 percent to Rs 1.74 lakh crore in June as compared to Rs 1.73 lakh crore in May, sources told Moneycontrol on July 1.The numbers were a tad higher than the previous month but lower than the GST mop-up in April, when it had peaked at Rs 2.1 lakh crore.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe collections totalled Rs 5.57 lakh crore in the first quarter of the year, averaging Rs 1.86 lakh crore per month.GST collections averaged Rs 1.68 lakh crore in FY24.
 
The news published on the date July 01, 2024 06:23 PM IST with headline  Surge in e-way bills generation suggests robust economic growth: FinMin is: 
 In FY24, the e-way bills generated jumped to Rs 110.11 crore from Rs 94.42 crore in FY22. The Union ministry of finance on July 1 said the number of e-way bills generated in the last financial year had recorded a 16 percent growth over FY23, indicating a robust economic growth.In FY24, the e-way bills generated jumped to Rs 110.11 crore from Rs 94.42 crore in FY22.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“Upsurge in e-Way Bills generation indicates #Sustainable and robust economic growth in #7yearsofGST,” the ministry said in a post on X.Upsurge in e-Way Bills generation indicates #Sustainable and robust economic growth in #7yearsofGST. pic.twitter.com/o1NBbhlW06— Ministry of Finance (@FinMinIndia
 
The news published on the date July 01, 2024 06:12 PM IST with headline  India panel urges drug regulator to approve Lilly's obesity drug Mounjaro is: 
 A pharmacist displays a box of Mounjaro, a tirzepatide injection drug used for treating type 2 diabetes made by Lilly at Rock Canyon Pharmacy in Provo An Indian government-approved expert panel has advised the country's drug regulator to approve the import and sale of U.S. drugmaker Eli Lilly's Mounjaro, a blockbuster diabetes drug and a wildly popular obesity treatment, a document on a government website showed on Monday.Lilly's Mounjaro, chemically known as tirzepatide, and Zepbound and Danish rival Novo Nordisk's Wegovy and Ozempic belong to a class of therapies known as GLP-1 receptor agonists, developed to control blood sugar in patients with type 2 diabetes.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThey also slow digestion, helping patients feel full longer, making them a wildly popular choice for weight loss."After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended for grant of permission for import and marketing" of certain doses of tirzepatide "for chronic weight management subject to the condition that firm should conduct Phase 4 clinical trial (post-marketing surveillance)," the Subject Expert Committee said in a notification dated June 19.The committee advises India's drug regulator on approvals of drugs and trials.
 
The news published on the date July 01, 2024 04:13 PM IST with headline  UPI transactions value in June stays above Rs 20 lakh crore for the second month running is: 
 UPI volumes rise further in June The value of UPI transactions remained above Rs 20 lakh crore for the second consecutive month, as average daily transactions rose further in the month, according to data released by National Payments Corporation of India on July 1.The average daily transaction volume was higher at 463 million compared with 453 million in the previous month, while the value of transactions soared to Rs 66,903 crore compared with RS 65,966 crore in May.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe volume of transactions on the digital payments service was 13.89 million in June compared with 14.04 million in the previous month.Over the year, digital transactions continued to exhibit phenomenal growth of 49 percent in volumes and 36 percent in value.
 
The news published on the date July 01, 2024 05:42 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | China’s shadow on global manufacturing refuses to shorten is: 
 Applying the screws to imports will hurt a significant part of the economy, something the government may not want to do Dear Reader,Rising steel imports appear to have caught the government’s attention. India’s steel and trade ministries are in talks over the issue, according to a Reuters report, due to rising imports of steel, particularly from China. India’s steel companies have been demanding higher tariffs, according to the report, to protect domestic price realisations.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhat’s more, the government has two considerations to evaluate. While steel producers may feel the pressure from imports, steel buyers such as automobiles, real estate and infrastructure/construction businesses are happy under these circumstances. Applying the screws to imports will hurt a significant part of the economy, something the government may not want to do.But this problem may not just be restricted to steel but a number of other commodities and is tied to the surpluses generated by China’s companies. The government’s quandary in tackling this with an iron hand can be understood from this article by Manas Chakravarty.He has pored through the Bank of International Settlements’ (BIS) Annual Economic Report to uncover this gem of an insight — rising imports from China have led to inflation coming down in many countries. India is one of the countries mentioned and it also benefits more because it is a commodity importer and lower growth in China has kept prices in check. What’s more, while rising imports have caused disinflation, since India is a domestic-focused economy, companies have not been hurt much by falling export realisations.
 
The news published on the date July 01, 2024 02:10 PM IST with headline  7 years of GST: A revenue boost for Centre and States is: 
 Seven years of GST The Goods and Services Tax regime completed seven years of implementation on Monday. Besides standardising most tax rates across the country, GST has delivered gains in terms of higher tax revenues, according to experts.Monthly collections under the regime have doubled to average over Rs 1.8 lakh crore over the last three months, compared with Rs 89,884 crore in the first year of implementation.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA paper by the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy (NIPFP) last year in April showed that the buoyance under the GST system since its implementation on July 1, 2017, was higher than five years prior to the regime.
 
The news published on the date July 01, 2024 01:46 PM IST with headline  Foreign investors left stranded in Evergrande’s web of Chinese debt is: 
 - Thomas Hale and Wang Xueqiao in Changsha and Kaye Wiggins in Hong KongIn Changsha, the capital city of Hunan province, Yang has just finished his morning flute practice by the lake next to his apartment. Over his seven decades he has lived in five different housing compounds, but says this one, with its greenery and nearby high-speed rail, is the best.Yang, who declined to provide his full name, bought into the Changsha Evergrande Oasis, one of man
 
The news published on the date July 02, 2024 05:09 PM IST with headline  What's the macro impact of India’s debut on global bond index? is: 
 Inclusion of India Government bonds in JP Morgan index Highlights - Quarterly performance largely backed by improved realisations - Medium-term triggers China plus and protectionist measures for tyre industry - Valuations not inexpensive; but improved medium-term outlook HighlightsIGBs will have a weight of 10 percent in JP Morgan’s EM index by Mar’25Inclusion will lead to an initial FPI inflows of around $20 billion between June ’24 and Mar ’25Opens the door for other indices (FTSE) to eventually include IGBsIndia’s relatively higher yields and strong macroeconomic position could attract active flows tooInclusion to lower government cost of borrowing, may encourage government to adhere to fiscal consolidationPositive for bond markets, balance of payments, and currencyIt wil
 
The news published on the date July 01, 2024 10:50 AM IST with headline  Manufacturing activity rises to 58.3 in June is: 
 Manufacturing PMI for June Manufacturing activity picked up in June to 58.3, recovering from a three-month low of 57.5 in May, owing to a rise in new orders, according to a private survey released Monday.“The Indian manufacturing sector ended the June quarter on a stronger footing. The headline manufacturing PMI rose by 0.8 percentage points to 58.3 in June, supported by increased new orders and output," Maitreyi Das, global economist, HSBC.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe seasonally adjusted HSBC India Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index remained higher than the long-term average, giving a fillip to employment, which rose at its fastest pace in over 19 years."The performance of the consumer goods industry was especially strong, although substantial increases were also noted in the intermediate and investment goods categories," the report highlighted.
 
The news published on the date July 01, 2024 09:52 AM IST with headline  Falling prices of Chinese exports have helped inflation come down in India is: 
 Representative image HighlightsChinese inflation has been very lowFalling goods prices have resulted in lower export pricesA lower yuan has also helpedImporters of Chinese goods have benefitedBrazil, Australia and India are big beneficiariesCommodity importers have also benefited from weaker Chinese demandLow prices of Chinese goods forces other producers too to reduce their price
 
The news published on the date July 01, 2024 08:47 AM IST with headline  Can the global tax deal shrug off inertia and move ahead? is: 
 Representative image HighlightsGlobal tax deal faces uncertainty even three years after initial agreementStandstill on America’s retaliation over India's DST extendedThe US holds back retaliatory steps as discussions on Pillar 1 are onEarly resolution looks unlikely as procedural complexities are deepMultinationals are not amused by the confusion over the tax dealNations should engage in right earnest to lift the suspense on the tax treat
 
The news published on the date July 01, 2024 08:51 AM IST with headline  Revised system for GDP estimate to be in place by early 2026 is: 
 GDP base revision The government has kicked off the process of GDP revision and India is likely to get the estimate for FY26 under the new system by the next one-and-a-half years, sources informed Moneycontrol.“It will take us another one and a half years, and we will have a new GDP estimate beginning 2026,” a person aware of the development said, highlighting that FY26 numbers are likely to be available with a new base.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA new base year and methodology of calculation implies that India will be able to track changes in the economy more closely, including new industries like renewable energy and services like the gig economy.The country follows FY12 as the base year for its GDP statistics. The GDP estimates follow five revisions, with the final numbers released after a hiatus of two years from the first one.The first advance estimate of the GDP is released in January of the preceding year, with eight to nine months of data available. The second release is scheduled for February. The provisional estimates are released in May, with the first and second revised estimates released in subsequent years.
 
The news published on the date June 30, 2024 05:33 PM IST with headline  GST simplified compliance, improved tax buoyancy; fake ITC generation still a challenge is: 
 Rolled out on July 1, 2017, Goods and Services Tax (GST) streamlined 17 taxes and 13 cesses into a 5-tier structure, simplifying the tax regime Introduced seven years ago, the Goods and Services Tax (GST) has simplified compliance, improved tax buoyancy and increased states' revenues, but fake invoices and fraudulent registration remain a big challenge for policymakers trying to curb tax evasion.Rolled out on July 1, 2017, Goods and Services Tax (GST) streamlined 17 taxes and 13 cesses into a 5-tier structure, simplifying the tax regime. The turnover threshold for registration rose to Rs 40 lakh for goods and Rs 20 lakh for services (up from Rs 5 lakh on average under VAT). GST also reduced 495 different submissions (challan, forms, declarations, etc) across states to just 12.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn seven years, the number of registered taxpayers has risen to 1.46 crore from 65 lakh in 2017. Average monthly GST revenues, soared from around Rs 90,000 crore in 2017-18, to about Rs 1.90 lakh crore in 2024-25. According to the government data, GST has improved tax buoyancy from 0.72 (pre-GST) to 1.22 (2018-23). Despite compensation ending, state revenues remain buoyant at 1.15.Without GST, states' revenue from subsumed taxes from fiscal 2018-19 to 2023-24 would have been Rs 37.5 lakh crore. With GST, states' actual revenue amounted to Rs 46.56 lakh crore. The effective weighted average GST rate has consistently fallen since 2017 and GST lowered taxes on many essential items compared to pre-GST rates.Common items like hair oil and soaps saw tax cut from 28 per cent to 18 per cent. Tax on electrical appliances was lowered to 12 per cent as against 31.5 per cent before. GST has exempted many essential items and services, such as unbranded food items, certain life-saving drugs, healthcare, education, public transport, sanitary napkins, hearing aid parts, agricultural services, etc. As evaders find newer modus operandi to defraud the exchequer, tax officers have been grappling with generation of fake invoices and fraudulent GST registrations.
 
The news published on the date June 29, 2024 07:03 PM IST with headline  Govt developing a national indicator to measure extreme poverty is: 
 Govt developing national indicator for extreme poverty The government is developing a national indicator to measure extreme poverty, it said in a report released on 29 June 2024.The Sustainable Development Goals National Indicator Framework progress report released by the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation highlighted that at present, there is no indicator to measure the progress achieved in eradicating extreme poverty. The government classifies anyone living on less than $1.25 per day as living in extreme poverty.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe first sustainable development goal (SDG) is to end all forms of poverty everywhere.The National Indicator Framework tracked 290 indicators (up from 284 last year) across 17 SDGs. A Moneycontrol analysis shows that the government has done well across most goals.Regarding social security coverage, the report indicated that coverage of the national pension scheme had increased to 18 million in FY24 from 17.3 million in the previous year.
 
The news published on the date June 29, 2024 03:08 PM IST with headline  Steel, trade ministries in talks over rising Chinese imports, says source is: 
 Steel, trade ministries in talks over rising Chinese imports, says source Steel and trade ministries are in talks over rising imports, particularly cheap Chinese goods, a government source with direct knowledge of the matter said on Saturday, amid persistent calls for higher tariffs from top producers.India turned net steel importer in the fiscal year that ended in March and the trend continues with its finished steel imports scaling a five-year high in April and May, according to provisional government data.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndia imported 1.1 million metric tons of finished steel between April and May, up 19.8% from a year earlier."The steel ministry has apprised the commerce ministry on rising imports and industry has sought a probe," the source said, declining to be identified as discussions are not public.India is monitoring cheap Chinese imports, the source said, as China continues to be top exporter of steel to the Asia's third-largest economy in recent months.
 
The news published on the date June 29, 2024 03:50 PM IST with headline  Govt sets up committee on GDP base revision is: 
 GDP base year to be revised soon The government has set up a 26-member committee to decide the base year for GDP.The committee will also take a call on the alignment of GDP with other indices like the wholesale price index, which is used for wholesale inflation; the consumer price index, used to determine consumer inflation; and the index of industrial production for the calculation of industrial growth.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Advisory Committee on National Accounts Statistics (ACNAS) was set up earlier this month, with Biswanath Goldar, former professor of the Institute of Economic Growth, as chairman.The ministry has also notified the committee's terms of reference, which include “review the existing databases and advise on the inclusion of new data sources for improving the estimates of National Accounts.”The committee will also advise on the compilation and presentation of national accounts.
 
The news published on the date June 29, 2024 10:01 AM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Weekender | Cyclical, Structural or Delusional? is: 
 Dear Reader,Another week, another all-time high. The MSCI All-Country World Index, as on 27th June 2024, was up 2.3 percent this month and 10.6 percent year-to-date. On the same date, MSCI India was up 6.7 percent in the month and 16.3 percent year-to-date. The reasons for the outperformance have been reiterated at length in every report on the Indian economy. GDP growth is strong, and the momentum is so good that RBI researchers, in their State of the Economy report, revised their estimates of growth this fiscal year to 7.6 percent, days after the Monetary Policy Committee had revised it up from 7 percent to 7.2 percent. We all know the many other positives—a stable current account, large forex reserves, strong bank and corporate balance sheets, the government’s focus on building infrastructure, the turnaround in real estate activity, the PLI schemes to boost manufacturing, corporate profits as a percentage of GDP at a 15-year high et al.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe question is: Given current valuations, haven’t all these positives, and more, been already priced in? The RBI's Financial Stability Report says, "Analysis of a longer time series of 12-month forward P/E ratios shows that while Nifty 50 and Nifty smallcap 100 are trading close to their historical averages since 2019, Nifty midcap 100 is trading one standard deviation above its historical average." But historical averages are applicable only when we average over a cycle, not when there has been a structural change in the economy. And there have been quite a few structural changes in recent years, such as the introduction of GST, slashing of the corporate tax rate, the PLI schemes to push manufacturing, defence indigenisation, the rise of Global Capability Centres in services exports, and, of course, the huge improvement in the country’s infrastructure. It is this structural transformation that has enabled the Indian economy to remain so strong despite a sluggish global economy, supply chain disruptions, tightening global central banks and geopolitical pressures.Most importantly, there has been a massive structural shift in the global economy, with China’s growth faltering and multinationals shifting supply chains to other, friendlier, nations. India has been a beneficiary of this change, and it is also one of the Asian countries least exposed to the Chinese demand slowdown. India has taken over from China as Asia’s new growth engine.Given these business-friendly changes, there is a case for valuations higher than the long-term average for Indian equities. The question is: how much higher?
 
The news published on the date June 28, 2024 06:28 PM IST with headline  Business in the Week Ahead (July 1-5, 2024) is: 
 Mr Market is looking pretty good, with domestic investors making up for the absence of their foreign counterparts The Budget is round the corner. And it's rush hour traffic to gather inputs from different stakeholders. The excitement is palpable as the President in her joint address to Parliament has just spoken about a “historic” upcoming Union Budget.Will it be a path-breaking one as promised? The government, on its part, is pulling out all the stops to give it an inclusive character. The high-frequency economic indicators, on the ground, are playing their part too, lending confidenc
 
The news published on the date July 01, 2024 12:00 PM IST with headline  G-Secs in JPMorgan index is just the start. Private bonds will also benefit is: 
 As the global economic landscape evolves, particularly with potential rate cuts from the Fed, we expect a shift in developed market flows into emerging markets The recent inclusion of Indian government bonds in the JP Morgan Emerging Markets Bond Index (EMBI) marks a watershed moment in India's financial ecosystem. The total number of outstanding Bonds stands at $2.59 trillion and has foreign ownership of about 2%. With this inclusion, we anticipate about $25-30 billion in terms of passive fixed income investments to come into the country in the next 10 months.While the short-term impact may seem limited, the long-term implications are profound and far-reaching. This pivotal moment will not only attract new capital to the market but also catalyse investment in private sector bonds, setting the stage for sustained growth and development in India's financial markets.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdImmediate and short-term effectsInitially, the impact of this inclusion may appear modest as foreign investors are already well-positioned for this shift. Since the announcement in September 2023, $10-11 billion of FPI inflows have already come into the government bond market. This is evident in the market as the benchmark 10-year G-Sec was unchanged on 28th June at 7%.However, this move places India prominently on the global financial map, mandating index tracker funds to allocate investments in Indian government securities. This is merely the beginning of a significant multi-year cyclical flow of investments into the country and the latent demand effects will start showing from next month onwards.
 
The news published on the date June 28, 2024 06:53 PM IST with headline  Core sector grows by 6.3% in May; power, coal, steel record higher output is: 
 Combined Index of Eight Core Industries increases by 6.3% in May India’s core sector growth eased to 6.3% in May, against the revised figure of 6.7% for the previous month, due to further contraction in the cement industry even as coal and electricity recorded higher output, according to the latest government data released on June 28."A combination of factors, including the heatwave over parts of the country and the phased Parliamentary Elections, could have curtailed activity and execution in some sectors," said Aditi Nayar, chief economist, Icra.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe combined Index of Eight Core Sector Industries measures the output of key sectors - cement, coal, crude oil, electricity, fertilisers, natural gas, refinery products and steel - which have a 40% weight in the Index of Industrial Production (IIP).The slight moderation in core sector growth is likely to be a drag on industrial expansion, according to experts.
 
The news published on the date June 28, 2024 04:55 PM IST with headline  Govt in process of finalising policy to offer PCI coal to steel makers to reduce imports is: 
 PCI (pulverized coal injection) coal is a type of metallurgical coal, which is used in the steel making process as auxiliary fuel for partial replacement of coke. It helps steel plant increase efficiency and reduce carbon emissions. (Representative Image) The government is in the process of finalising a policy to offer washed PCI coal to steel makers in order to reduce imports, a senior official said on Friday.PCI (pulverized coal injection) coal is a type of metallurgical coal, which is used in the steel making process as auxiliary fuel for partial replacement of coke. It helps steel plant increase efficiency and reduce carbon emissions.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"We are actually thinking about a policy...whereby we will be washing and offering washed PCI coal to the steel sector (only specifically to the steel sector) end use so that we will be able to reduce imports," M Nagaraju, additional secretary, coal, said at a workshop on coal matrix for the Indian metals industry organised by industry body Ficci.He also said that there was a need to remove ash content in PCI coal.At present, most of the steel makers in the country import PCI coal and its demand is expected to go up to anywhere between 20-30 million tonnes by 2030, Nagaraju said.
 
The news published on the date June 28, 2024 04:40 PM IST with headline  FATF recognises India’s efforts in mitigating money laundering, terror financing is: 
 The Paris-headquartered body leads global action to tackle money laundering, terrorist and proliferation financing. The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) in its mutual evaluation 2023-24 has recognised India for its efforts in mitigating the risks arising from money laundering and terror financing, including from corruption, which will lead to greater access to global financing and boost investor confidence, the Finance Ministry said on June 28.“FATF recognises India’s efforts to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. India has achieved an outstanding outcome in the Mutual Evaluation conducted during 2023-24 by FATF. This marks a significant milestone. Good ratings will lead to better access to global financial markets and institutions and increase investor confidence,” the ministry said in a statement.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Mutual Evaluation Report of India was adopted in the FATF plenary held in Singapore between June 26 and 28 this year. It demonstrates the overall stability and integrity of India’s financial system. It will also help in the global expansion of the Unified Payments Interface (UPI), the Finance Ministry said.“FATF recognised India’s effective measures to transition from a cash-based to a digital economy to reduce money laundering risks along with the implementation of the JAM (Jan Dhan, Aadhaar, Mobile) Trinity. Regulations on cash transactions, significant increase in financial inclusion have made transactions more traceable, thereby mitigating laundering risks,” the ministry added.India’s performance on the FATF Mutual Evaluation accrues significant advantages to our growing economy, as it demonstrates the overall stability and integrity of the financial system, it further said.
 
The news published on the date June 28, 2024 04:19 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | The sound of financial stability is: 
 - Dear Reader,Ever tried to hear the sound of raindrops during a storm? It is hard because it is drowned by the thunder of the storm. But on a simple rainy day, the sound is pleasant, even comforting. Financial stability is like the sound of raindrops, giving comfort to all the stakeholders involved, especially the regulators.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Reserve Bank of India details this comfort in its latest financial stability report by highlighting the strength of the financial system it oversees, along with other regulators. At the heart of this are banks that have delivered one of the best performances in recent years, showing off robust growth metrics as well as enviable profitability. Banks are the bedrock of financial stability in India and the RBI is pleased to reiterate their balance sheet heft and impeccable risk profile in the report. Our Chart of the Day here captures this exemplary page on banks. India’s lenders have fortified their capital ratios, their bad loan pile is at a multi-year low and return ratios are at decadal high. What’s more, banks have enough dry powder to sustain these impeccable metrics for one more year at the least.The RBI has every right to feel good about its own proactive measures that have resulted in not just a robust banking system but also an improved non-bank financial ecosystem. Granted, there are areas of concern surrounding the fintechs and retail credit, but these stress points are also quite mild, according to the RBI.But the RBI would be remiss if it did not include potential warnings that could jeopardise financial stability and challenges that must be monitored.
 
The news published on the date June 28, 2024 03:00 PM IST with headline  How much do states earn from liquor taxes? is: 
 States earning from alcohol A minister in the Odisha Cabinet on June 27 announced that the state was planning to impose a ban on liquor, but the government was quick to dismiss such reports.While four states in the country have imposed a complete ban on liquor, excise duties, which are imposed on liquor, account for a significant share of the states’ own tax revenues.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn case of Odisha, a ban on liquor may become more untenable as it earns a larger share of its own tax revenue from liquor than the national average.According to the vote-on-account presented by the previous government, Odisha is set to earn Rs 8,680 crore from alcohol revenues in FY25, which would account for 14.7 percent of the state’s own tax revenues compared with 13.8 percent share in the previous fiscal.In contrast, a Moneycontrol analysis shows that the average excise duty to own tax revenue ratio for 19 of the largest states and UTs is expected to be 13.7 percent, unchanged from revised estimates of FY24 and only marginally higher from 13.5 percent share in FY23.
 
The news published on the date June 28, 2024 11:22 AM IST with headline  Budget may retain focus on rapid infra growth with higher capex for roads sector: Report is: 
 The government plans to construct 12,000 to 13,000 km of national highways and award contracts for similar lengths to sustain momentum in highway construction in the coming years. The government is poised to retain its focus on rapid infrastructure development this fiscal, with plans to potentially increase capital expenditure allocations for the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) in the upcoming budget for FY25, according to a report in Mint.Catch all the important stories on the upcoming budget HEREStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe increase in allocations is expected to be moderate, likely ranging between 5 percent and 10 percent above the FY24 revised estimates, the report said. This adjustment comes as the government anticipates a significant rise in private sector investments in road construction projects, particularly under the build-operate-transfer (BOT) toll model. Private investments in FY24 reached Rs 34,805 crore and are projected to nearly double in FY25, up from Rs 20,000 crore in FY23.Also Read | These stocks stand to gain if the Budget proves generous for the middle classThe BOT toll projects allow private sector participants to assume construction risks and invest in road development, thereby reducing the burden on government spending. Approximately 20-25 percent of highway projects this year are expected to be awarded under the BOT toll model, easing the government's financial outlay for infrastructure development.In the interim budget for FY25, presented in February, the government increased the MoRTH allocation to Rs 2.72 trillion, up from Rs 2.64 trillion in revised estimates for FY24 and Rs 2.58 trillion in FY23. The upcoming full budget for FY25, scheduled in late July, may see moderate increases in MoRTH allocations.Do Not Miss | Budget 2024: Do India's richest pay the highest personal income taxes?The higher allocation is intended to accelerate highway construction and address the substantial debt of Rs 3.5 trillion accrued by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) by the end of FY24. The government aims to construct 12,000 to 13,000 km of national highways and award contracts for similar lengths to sustain momentum in highway construction in the coming years.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdStory continues below AdvertisementTo bolster private sector participation, amendments have been made to the BOT toll model concession agreement, aiming to enhance traffic estimation accuracy and increase lender interest in funding such projects, according to CRISIL. Ratings agencies CRISIL and India Ratings and Research note that while budgetary allocations in the roads sector have shown robust growth over the past decade, there is now a moderation as the government seeks greater private sector involvement in infrastructure development
 
The news published on the date June 28, 2024 09:30 AM IST with headline  From the C-suite to the bottom of the pyramid, women are vanishing from India’s economic landscape is: 
 A 2022 study by Institutional Investor Advisory Services, women accounted for 18 per cent of directors in India’s top 500 corporations which form the Nifty 500 Index In 1951, there were 22 women Members of Parliament in Independent India’s first Lok Sabha. Despite 75 years of alleged pro-women policies pursued by all political parties since then, this number has risen to just 74 in the 18th Lok Sabha, which was elected in May 2024. This means that in the 17 general elections which have followed since the first, the number of women MPs has gone up by an average of just three MPs ever
 
The news published on the date June 28, 2024 08:46 AM IST with headline  How can India tide itself over the water crisis? is: 
 Representative iamge HighlightsMoody’s warns of rating impact following water scarcity in IndiaThe rating firm makes a detailed case for quick action to address water woesThe recent water crisis in Bengaluru or New Delhi is a testimony to Moody’s viewsThe Centre and the states should take immediate note of Moody’s observationsA well-coordinated strategy is needed for a water-cure future of the countr
 
The news published on the date June 28, 2024 08:11 AM IST with headline  Chart of the Day: Financial stability from the banking prism is: 
 Financial stability from the eyes of banks The Reserve Bank of India’s latest financial stability report highlights the fact that India’s banks have demonstrated resilience in almost all financial metrics. In terms of soundness, banks have never been better, and balance sheets have never been stronger. The accompanying chart, reproduced for you from the report, sums up the good parts of the banking system and the improvement seen despite the pandemic. The RBI expects banks to show further improvement in the current financial yea
 
The news published on the date June 28, 2024 08:00 AM IST with headline  RBI's financial stability report shows India’s banks are resilient, but its markets are yet to be is: 
 Financial stability report lists the triumph and travails HighlightsIndian banks have high capital ratios, multi-year low bad loans and decade high return ratiosVarious financial institutions have also shown improvement in their performance metricsIndia’s capital markets continue to be vulnerable to geopolitical risks, global spilloversDerivatives, specifically equity futures and options are a serious worryRBI expects markets to withstand major global headwinds but continues to be vigilan
 
The news published on the date June 28, 2024 07:45 AM IST with headline  India's GDP growth to slow modestly this fiscal year and next: Poll is: 
 India's GDP growth to slow modestly this fiscal year and next: Poll Forecasts for a mild slowdown in India's fast-growing economy held steady in the first Reuters poll of economists since the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lost its parliamentary majority in phased national elections that ended in early June.Asia's third-largest economy grew 8.2% in the last fiscal year, the fastest among major economies. But growth is set to slow to 7.0% and then 6.7% in the current and next fiscal years, according to a June 19-27 Reuters poll of over 50 economists.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe forecasts are broadly unchanged from those made before the outcome of an election Prime Minister Narendra Modi was widely expected to win easily. Instead, the BJP lost its sizeable parliamentary majority for its historic third term.Forming a government with the support of regional parties, the BJP retained most ministers, suggesting no imminent shift in policy, which for years has aimed to boost gross domestic product (GDP) growth through government capital spending.But without a follow-through in private expenditure, many Indians - particularly young people - have been left out of work or in low-paying jobs. With no major change to policy expected yet, economists left their forecasts steady.
 
The news published on the date June 28, 2024 06:44 AM IST with headline  Cash Trade | Tech Mahindra price breaks out of a major resistance level
 
The news published on the date June 27, 2024 04:25 PM IST with headline  Govt mulls study on pay parity in PSUs with private sector: Official is: 
 The salary disparity discourages many top executives from staying with PSUs. The Centre is considering commissioning a study on salary parity for state-run companies with private sector counterparts ahead of the 2027 pay revision for public sector undertakings (PSUs) to boost competitiveness, a government official said.“Such demands have been there, and the government is considering it. The study will focus only on PSUs. The government may decide the course of action on the basis of the report,” the official said on condition of anonymity, adding that the study is likely to be commissioned in the current financial year.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe finance ministry will take the final decision on commissioning the study, which is likely to be conducted by EY, the official said, adding that discussions with the consulting firm are already underway.“Internal discussions in the government have happened on this, but a final decision is yet to be made,” the official said.The wide pay disparity between PSUs and their private sector peers has often resulted in state-run companies losing their best and most experienced executives to private sector companies.
 
The news published on the date June 27, 2024 12:58 PM IST with headline  Budget likely to extend tax concession for setting up manufacturing units: Report is: 
 A newly constituted working group under Meity is tasked with refining the policy framework to address challenges in electronics manufacturing. The government is likely to revive the concessional corporate tax rate of 15 percent for new manufacturing facilities when it presents the full budget for FY25 in July, Mint has reported.Launched in 2019, the scheme lapsed after the extended deadline ran out on March 31, 2024. Designed to attract fresh investments in manufacturing, the scheme is crucial for economic growth and job creation, the report said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe move comes amid efforts to shift focus from low-paid agricultural activities to high-paying manufacturing jobs, seen as pivotal for economic resilience and global competitiveness.The manufacturing sector, which contributes 14 percent to India’s GDP, rebounded with a 9.9 percent growth in FY24 after a contraction the previous year.Also Read | Betting on India's manufacturing sector: Can this new theme fund win the race? A Moneycontrol review
 
The news published on the date June 27, 2024 12:38 PM IST with headline  The economic consequences of Mr Trump is: 
 - Edward LuceIt is a pity that we had to wait for investment analysts to spell out the effects of Donald Trump’s trade plans. Joe Biden’s campaign should be ramming it down American throats every day. That Trump’s impact on US democracy is uppermost in Biden’s mind is natural. But it is crowding out what preoccupies more voters. The bottom line, according to Moody’s Analytics, is that Trump’s policies would trigger a recession by mid-2025. Unemployment and inflatio
 
The news published on the date June 27, 2024 10:39 AM IST with headline  MC Interview: Component scheme, notifying DPDP rules are priorities: MeitY Secy S Krishnan is: 
 Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology secretary S Krishnan India's Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) has seen rapid expansion far ahead of any other government department in the last decade.Today, it holds sway over large swathes of governance — such as regulating speech on the internet, overseeing the national biometric authentication system, protecting personal data, incentivising the adoption of online payments, wooing chipmakers to the country and handholding the country into the age of artificial intelligence and so on.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPerhaps, it won’t be remiss to say that MeitY’s plate is overflowing.Moneycontrol sat down with MeitY Secretary, S Krishnan, the topmost technology bureaucrat of the country, to take stock of what the government’s immediate and long-term priorities are — from data protection to chips.Edited excerpts:
 
The news published on the date June 27, 2024 09:53 AM IST with headline  Chart of the Day | India’s exports to gain from shifts in global supply chains is: 
 representative image The geopolitical turmoil witnessed for several years accentuated by conflicts and wars have made countries more protectionist. Large companies have also been re-evaluating supply chain networks. The key point is that China’s role in the global value chain is losing importance.While research analysts, economists and industry veterans concede that China’s presence in global markets cannot fade away, many countries are serious adopting the China-Plus-One strategy.(image) A Nomura report highlights that Asia, led by India and Vietnam i
 
The news published on the date June 27, 2024 09:52 AM IST with headline  As RBI forces bigwig issuers to rein in credit cards, lenders turn wary of plastic is: 
 Taking the slow service road HighlightsCredit card issuance growth and spends growth moderated in MayRBI has imposed bans on credit card issuance as penalty on select banks in past monthsBanks have turned cautious as spends growth shows declineCard swipes are for smaller transactions, volume has remained highUPI and credit card integration may have contributed to volum
 
The news published on the date June 27, 2024 08:26 AM IST with headline  India's remittance growth may slow down 50% in 2024 on lower inflow from Gulf: World Bank is: 
 UAE, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Oman, and Qatar collectively contribute 11% to India's total remittances. India-bound remittance growth is likely to halve in 2024 at 3.7 percent from 7.5 percent a year back because of reduced inflows from the Gulf, the World Bank has said.India received a robust $120 billion in 2023, thanks to strong labour markets in the US and Europe. Declining oil prices and lower production have taken toll on the outflow from the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries, according to a report by the World Bank. The multilateral lending agency has estimated a modest $124 billion inflow for 2024 and $129 billion for 2025.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRemittance growth refers to the increase in the total amount of money sent by individuals working abroad (migrants) to their home countries. This growth is typically measured in terms of percentage change over a specific period, such as annually or quarterly. Remittances are often crucial for recipient countries as they contribute to their economies through increased household incomes and foreign exchange reserves.India maintained its position as the top recipient of remittances globally, ahead of countries like Mexico ($66 billion), China ($50 billion), the Philippines ($39 billion), and Pakistan ($27 billion). The country also leads in terms of the number of emigrants, with 18.7 million Indians living abroad.Efforts by India to enhance the remittance processes, such as linking its Unified Payments Interface with countries like the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Singapore, are expected to reduce transaction costs and accelerate remittances. The UAE, accounting for 18 percent of India's remittances and the second-largest source after the US, has benefited from a free trade agreement signed in February 2023. This agreement facilitates transactions in local currencies and promotes cooperation in payment and messaging systems between India and the UAE.
 
The news published on the date June 27, 2024 06:03 AM IST with headline  Cash Market: Reliance can surprise on the upside
 
The news published on the date June 26, 2024 07:05 PM IST with headline  Centre seeks report from Tamil Nadu govt on Foxconn's 'discriminatory practices' against married women is: 
 The office of regional chief labour commissioner has also been asked to file a factual report to the ministry, the statement added. The Union labour ministry has requested a detailed report from Tamil Nadu state government’s Labour department after taking note of various media reports claiming that married women are not being allowed to work at Foxconn India’s Apple iPhone plant, the ministry said in a statement on June 26.“Section 5 of the Equal Remuneration Act, 1976 clearly stipulates that no discrimination to be made while recruiting men and women workers. As the State Government is the appropriate authority for the enforcement and administration of the provisions of this Act, hence the report has been sought from the State Government,” the ministry said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe office of regional chief labour commissioner has also been asked to file a factual report to the ministry, the statement added.Also read: Apple supplier Foxconn says no to married women seeking jobs at Tamil Nadu plantOn June 25, an investigation by Reuters said that the smartphone manufacturer systematically excluded married women from job opportunities at its main iPhone assembly plant located at Sriperumbudur, near the city of Chennai in Tamil Nadu as the world's largest contract electronics maker felt they had “more issues post marriage”.
 
The news published on the date June 26, 2024 04:57 PM IST with headline  US consumers are making economic doomers look silly is: 
 The reality is more nuanced and reflects how consumer spending habits have shifted. After being so consistently wrong in recent years about how the US economy and households would perform coming out of the pandemic, doomsayers should have learned their lesson. But there they were in full force after Pool Corp. said late Monday that it was lowering its earnings outlook because households aren’t installing backyard swimming pools as they once did. Here’s how Pool put it:“The most recent pool permit data suggests persistently weak demand for new pool construction, and with the peak selling season almost complete, we now believe that new pool construction activity could be down 15% to 20% for the year with remodel activity down as much as 15%.”This was clearly a shock, as evidenced by Pool’s shares plunging more than 11% at one point Tuesday, the biggest intraday decline since 2020. Not only that, but the shares of Home Depot Inc., Lowe’s Cos. and other building-related stocks dropped in sympathy. As one economist wrote in a note to clients, “Again, this feels much more like a 1.5% type growth rate economy and not 3.0%.”Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThere’s little doubt consumer spending overall is slowing after the extraordinary surge during the pandemic era. But don’t confuse that with the idea pushed by the economic Cassandras that the consumer is finally cracking under a mountain of credit-card debt, high prices and elevated interest rates. The reality is more nuanced and reflects how consumer spending habits have shifted. Whereas the period of 2020-2022 was largely marked by spending on goods, whether it be backyard pools, appliances, cars or clothes, the period since has been marked by an increasing percentage of dollars spent on services. In other words, the things that make life enjoyable — travel, leisure, dining out and other experiences.This shift was on full display Tuesday when Carnival Corp. raised its earnings forecast and said record-setting demand for cruises allowed it to raise prices for its packages. The company’s shares rose as much as 9.88% to their highest since early January. Carnival “sees no natural ending point” in demand, company executives said on a conference call with analysts.Carnival is not the exception. Concert promoter and ticket seller Live Nation Entertainment Inc. was very bullish about the outlook for performances when company executives discussed its earnings results last month. Here’s a sample of their comments based on a transcript of the earnings call:“So just to make sure we hit hard on the consumer demand, we are seeing no weakness. The things that we look at that give us an indication of how the shows are selling, how the fans are spending when they go to the site, all continue to be very strong. We’re consistently seeing the sell-through of the shows are at or above where they were last year and that the overall grosses for the artists are consistently higher. So, no issues at all on fan demand relative to last summer.”
 
The news published on the date June 26, 2024 04:42 PM IST with headline  The US Budget deficit is huge. Here’s why to worry is: 
 The US is taking a big risk by running large and chronic fiscal deficits. The US government’s finances keep looking worse. The latest Congressional Budget Office projections suggest that it will need to borrow an added $400 billion this year to cover its budget deficit — and trillions more over the next decade.Investors have plenty of legitimate reasons to worry about this trend. The immediate effect on money markets isn’t one of them.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe CBO’s forecasts are truly dire. It has raised its estimate of the fiscal 2024 deficit to $1.9 billion from $1.5 billion, citing the costs of military assistance to Israel and Ukraine, student loan forgiveness and higher interest rates. It puts the ten-year deficit at $22.1 trillion, up from a February estimate of $20 trillion — and that’s based on the optimistic assumption that Congress won’t extend the provisions of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act beyond 2025.Larger deficits require greater borrowing. When the US Treasury unexpectedly needs to issued more debt, it usually does so by selling short-term Treasury bills, which it can roll over into longer-term debt if the higher borrowing persists. This has led to concerns that a flood of T-bills will hit the market, soaking up cash and triggering a spike in short-term interest rates like the one that rocked money markets in September 2019.I doubt the added borrowing will be so disruptive, for three reasons. First, higher-yielding Treasury bills will attract much of the cash currently parked at the Federal Reserve’s reverse repo purchase facility, where investors (primarily money-market mutual funds) have lent about $380 billion against the collateral of Treasury securities, earning 5.30 percent. As usage of the facility contracts, that cash will end up at banks, increasing their reserves and reducing their short-term borrowing needs.
 
The news published on the date June 26, 2024 04:32 PM IST with headline  China’s AI strength suggests US curbs could backfire is: 
 AI has emerged as a global national security imperative. US officials and tech leaders have spent much of this year celebrating the success of all-out efforts to stifle China’s AI ambitions.But it’s too soon to count Beijing out of the race, and American attempts to limit China’s progress have pushed the nation to advance in creating a homegrown ecosystem at a time when developing sovereign AI has emerged as a global national security imperative. It would be unwise to underestimate the stakes for China, especially when the technology is still in its infancy.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt a developer conference last Friday, the chairman of Huawei Technologies Co’s consumer business arm, Richard Yu, said the tech giant — long kneecapped by US restrictions — has taken 10 years do what it took European and American counterparts 30 years. Yu touted Huawei’s latest processers as 1.1 times more effective in training AI models compared to other offerings on the market. (Notably, Yu stopped short of naming specifics here, while previous Bloomberg News reporting suggests costly and mixed results in the firm’s semiconductor push). But Huawei’s race to develop its own chips has also surprised industry watchers, and even caught the attention of Jensen Huang, the chief executive officer of AI’s golden child, Nvidia Corp.Separately, Chinese quant firm High-Flyer Capital Management quietly released an open-source AI model earlier this month dubbed DeepSeek Coder V2 that impressed much of the global tech community with its ability to write code and do math. Its developers also claim it beat competitors at common benchmarks — at a fraction of the cost of other tools developed by US tech giants, and despite the intense restrictions on access to chips from Washington.US tech curbs on semiconductors present the biggest obstacles to China’s ambitions. Companies have been cut off from accessing the most-advanced chips and manufacturing tools made by America and its allies. But this has also incentivized Beijing to double down on longer-term efforts to create a self-sufficient chips and AI ecosystem.
 
The news published on the date June 26, 2024 04:07 PM IST with headline  Rupee falls 17 paise to close at 83.60 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee falls 17 paise to close at 83.60 against US dollar The rupee depreciated 17 paise against the US dollar and settled at 83.60 (provisional) on Wednesday, weighed down by the strength of the American currency in the overseas market and elevated crude oil prices.However, a firm trend in domestic equities, wherein benchmark indices scaled new peaks, supported the local unit and restricted the downslide, forex traders said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 83.45 and hit the intraday high of 83.43 and a low of 83.61 against the greenback during the session.It finally settled at 83.60 (provisional) against the dollar, 17 paise lower than its previous close.On Tuesday, the rupee appreciated 4 paise and settled at 83.43 against the greenback.
 
The news published on the date June 26, 2024 04:02 PM IST with headline  Indian Aviation industry needs more efficient measures to achieve its sustainability goals is: 
 The aviation industry’s share in India’s CO2 emissions is 1 percent, it is set to ratchet up in the coming years. It is believed that aviation is responsible for 2.5% of global emissions and 12% of transportation emissions. While the aviation industry’s share in India’s CO2 emissions is 1%, as one of the fastest-growing service sectors, its emissions are set to ratchet up in the coming years.India will experience the most significant increase in energy demand through 2040 than any other country. Being the world’s fifth-largest economy makes India and our aviation industry, inextricably linked and energy-hungry.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA billion people are expected to join India’s middle class by 2030 and are likely to start flying. Each of the stakeholders in the travel industry will be pushed towards sustainability to meet the country’s pledge of achieving carbon neutrality by 2070 and generate 500GW of power from non-fossil fuel sources by 2030.Air travel’s carbon footprint’s risingAccording to a CEEW report, domestic air travel is set to dominate India's CO2 emissions in 2050 due to the high emission intensity of air travel and zero direct emissions of the electrified road transport sector which is expected to reach a market share of 75% during the same period.
 
The news published on the date June 26, 2024 04:00 PM IST with headline  Mapping Marine Le Pen’s route to an absolute majority in France is: 
 Marine Le Pen’s National Rally party is winning voters across the political spectrum. (Source: Bloomberg/Getty Images Europe) Anyone familiar with the Asterix books will recall the map that opened every adventure: A tiny village of indomitable Gauls, visible only by magnifying glass, holding out against a seemingly unstoppable Roman invasion.Something similar is happening in today’s French political landscape. As the map of June 9 European election results shows below, the only parts of the country that Marine Le Pen’s far-right National Rally failed to conquer are Paris and a handful of other big cities. With just days to go before the first round of snap parliamentary elections, bear this cartography in mind when gauging just how big a majority she and her bloc — currently leading the polls with support of about 35% — may eventually clinch.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhile polls have so far indicated a relative majority for Le Pen, those European results seem to give her a path to an absolute majority bigger than all the other parties combined, according to Arnaud Lacheret, professor at the Paris-based Skema Business School. A model built by Lacheret and financier Philippe Bouis estimates that Le Pen could win 320 out of 577 seats — which would be a pretty grim development for a founding European Union member (and its only nuclear power) whose political system tends to elect establishment parties for government while sidelining those at the extremes.The model makes several assumptions, most notably that pro-European president Emmanuel Macron and his centrist group — currently polling in third place — would be a big loser from the two-round voting system. It assumes that Le Pen wins all constituencies where National Rally and far-right rival Reconquete score more than 45%, and that she wins 80% of those where the far and center right have a 15-point lead. In the case of a three-way runoff between Le Pen, Macron and the left, it assumes she wins 75% of the time, which suggests the notion of a cordon sanitaire is dead and gone.
 
The news published on the date June 26, 2024 02:11 PM IST with headline  Economic growth momentum stays the course to reach 7.5% in FY25: NCAER is: 
 GDP growth continues in Q1FY25 The Indian economy kept up its growth momentum in the first quarter of the current fiscal, the National Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER) said in a report on June 26.“High-frequency indicators reveal that the domestic economy continues to remain resilient,” the NCAER said in its monthly economic review, pointing to an acceleration in industrial production and buoyant GST collections.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe country's private sector activity eased in May but is likely to have picked up again in June, preliminary results of the Purchasing Managers’ Index released last week showed.The HSBC Flash India Composite Output Index remained above the 50 mark, rising to 60.9 in June compared with 60.5 a month back.“Bank credit growth remained above 20 percent despite some deceleration in personal credit growth, and expectations of ‘above normal’ monsoon despite deficient rainfall in June held out strongly for the farm sector,” the NCAER said.
 
The news published on the date June 26, 2024 12:29 PM IST with headline  World headed for ‘food wars’ amid geopolitics, climate change, warns Olam is: 
 - Madeleine Speed and Susannah SavageThe world is headed for “food wars” as geopolitical tensions and climate change push countries into conflict over waning supplies, said one of the world’s largest agricultural commodity traders.“We have fought many wars over oil. We will fight bigger wars over food and water,” said Sunny Verghese, chief executive of Olam Agri, a Singapore-based agricultural trading house.Speaking at the Redburn Atlantic and Rothschild consumer conference last week, Verghese warned that trade barriers impose
 
The news published on the date June 26, 2024 03:51 PM IST with headline  Spectrum auction concludes after seven rounds, govt revenue seen at over Rs 11,300 cr is: 
 Bharti Airtel has emerged as the biggest bidder in the auction The 5G spectrum auction worth Rs 96,000 crore concluded on June 26 after seven rounds with bids worth over Rs 11,300 crore from Reliance Jio, Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea.Airtel emerged as the biggest spender in the 5G auction. The Sunil Mittal-led telco has spent Rs 8,000-Rs 9,000 to buy airwaves in the efficient sub-GHz 900 MHz band as well as those in the 1800 and 2100 MHz bands, sources said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdVodafone Idea (Vi) has possibly acquired spectrum in the 900 MHz, 1800 MHz and 2500MHz bands worth Rs 1200-Rs 1500 crore, they added.Both telcos have largely bought spectrum in telecom circles where their permits are coming up for renewal. Airtel, however, has also bought fresh spectrum in the 900 MHz band.The telecom department has put over 10,500 Mhz spectrum in eight frequency bands - 800 MHz, 900 MHz, 1,800 MHz, 2,100 MHz, 2,300 MHz, 2,500 MHz, 3,300 MHz and 26 GHz, valued at Rs 96,238 crore at base price, for auction.
 
The news published on the date June 26, 2024 09:54 AM IST with headline  RBI’s Das points to storm clouds over microfinance is: 
 - HighlightsRBI governor recently warned of usurious interest rates charged by some NBFCsInterest rates in microfinance are deregulated and eligible households defined clearlyHigher interest rates tend to act as a destabilising agent for vulnerable households with lower or stagnant incomeStates with assembly polls due will see such rates as potential political challengesAnalysts have pointed to stress emerging from loans with high interest rates and also rise in indebtednes
 
The news published on the date June 28, 2024 09:05 AM IST with headline  Are the tailwinds for offshore wind power strong enough? is: 
 Representative image HighlightsThe Union Cabinet on June 19 cleared a VGF scheme for offshore wind powerThis will help instal and commission 1 GW of offshore wind power in the countrySo far, India does not have any offshore wind power projectWith a long coastline, India’s potential for offshore wind power is hugeIt remains to be seen whether the VGF scheme can energise offshore wind power projects in Indi
 
The news published on the date June 26, 2024 09:11 AM IST with headline  Decoding Economics: Why the US wants to rewrite rules of international trade is: 
 - Why are the US and its allies erecting barriers to trade and investment vis-à-vis China? The US claims it’s because of the unfair industrial policies that China pursues. To take one example, the European Union has recently come out with a compendium of the measures that China is using to support its electric vehicle (EV) industry and the report is being used to slap punitive tariffs on Chinese EV exports to Europe.But a recent NBER working paper
 
The news published on the date June 25, 2024 06:27 PM IST with headline  India’s external debt ratio falls to 13-year low of 18.7% in FY24 is: 
 External debt position improves India’s external debt ratio improved to the best level in 13 years in FY24, declining to 18.7 percent of the GDP from 19 percent in the previous year, according to data released by the Reserve Bank of India on June 25.The country added nearly $40 billion during this period, taking the total debt to $663.8 billion as of March 2024.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“Valuation effect due to the appreciation of the US dollar vis-à-vis the Indian rupee and other major currencies such as the yen, the euro and SDR amounted to $8.7 billion. Excluding the valuation effect, external debt would have increased by $48.4 billion instead of $39.7 billion at end-March 2024 over end-March 2023,” it noted.The valuation effect is when the value of assets held abroad changes vis-à-vis the value of domestic assets held by foreign investors.While general government debt rose 11.5 percent as of March 2024 compared with the previous year, households and nonprofit institutions serving households declined 16.5 percent.
 
The news published on the date June 25, 2024 05:10 PM IST with headline  Rupee settles 3 paise higher at 83.44 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee settles 3 paise higher at 83.44 against US dollar The rupee appreciated 3 paise against the US dollar on Tuesday, tracking a firm trend in domestic equities amid stable global crude oil prices.However, a strengthening American currency in the overseas market weighed on the local unit and restricted the up move, forex traders said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 83.46 and hit the intraday high of 83.41 and a low of 83.48 against the greenback during the session.It finally settled at 83.44 (provisional) against the dollar, registering a gain of 3 paise from its previous close.On Monday, the rupee appreciated 10 paise to settle at 83.47 against the US dollar.
 
The news published on the date June 25, 2024 03:47 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Do alcobev companies justify trading at FMCG valuations? is: 
 Alcoholic beverage (alcobev) companies have historically traded at premium valuations. Dear Reader, The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAs Allied Blenders and Distillers launches its IPO, one cannot help but wonder at the valuation that the company and the sector are commanding. You can read our research team's analysis of the IPO here.The company's earnings estimates, according to the above note, put the FY25 price to earnings (P/E) multiple at a whopping 54 times. Even then, the valuation is at a discount to industry peers United Spirits, United Breweries and Radico Khaitan.Alcoholic beverage (alcobev) companies have historically traded at premium valuations — the Red Herring Prospectus of Allied Blenders indicates an average industry P/E ratio of 62 times.
 
The news published on the date June 25, 2024 02:49 PM IST with headline  We’ve already picked decoupling’s low-hanging fruit is: 
 The global economy can withstand a massive shock wrought by any future conflict between China and Taiwan, then that’s a dream so far unfulfilled. Declines in foreign direct investment in China bolster the thesis that global companies are turning away from the world’s most-important production hub, continuing the trend of decoupling that has policymakers and corporate leaders looking for alternative manufacturing bases. The truth of the nation’s deteriorating importance isn’t so simple.Inbound FDI dropped 28.2% in the year through May, the 12th straight month of retraction. Other data released this month add weight to the “whither China” argument.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdYet, there’s a risk of overestimating the extent to which deglobalization is occurring. Brad Setser, a fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, warns policymakers may underestimate the trade and economic impact of conflict, especially in the Taiwan Strait.Instead, it’s important to recognize that some shift in manufacturing has already occurred, but this rate of change is likely to be stagnant for a little while. Both corporate and political leaders need to accept and adjust to the unsteady pace of decoupling, especially when it comes to planning for supply chain resilience.Deglobalization is the unraveling of global commerce, while decoupling is the gradual cessation of ties between two parties, in this case the US and China, and their spheres of influence. Fragmentation is the breaking up of previously large, centralized hubs of activity into more numerous, smaller groupings. Each of these is happening, and can be supported by data, but none is yet complete. They likely never will be.
 
The news published on the date June 25, 2024 02:37 PM IST with headline  Asia is charting its own course beyond US and China is: 
 The difference now is that it is accompanied by a shift in global power from the West to the East. From India to Indonesia, Asian nations are becoming less reliant on the West. There is a new self-confidence emerging, as they offset their security interests with the US and their economic needs with China or Russia. This is the theme of author and former UK diplomat Samir Puri’s new book,Westlessness: The Great Global Rebalancing, and it is a phenomenon those outside the region need to better understand.Malaysia’s Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim’s decision last week to declare his interest in Kuala Lumpur joining BRICS — the economic bloc co-founded in 2009 by Brazil, Russia, India and China and later South Africa — is a good example of that. It expanded in January to include other “Global South” nations Iran, Ethiopia, Egypt, and the United Arab Emirates. BRICS now represents 42% of the world’s population and 36% of global GDP.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAnwar pointed to the fact that BRICS has doubled in size this year, partly by offering access to financing, but also because these nations feel they can operate without having to kowtow to Washington or the West. Vietnam, Indonesia and Thailand are also considering joining. There are risks of course, given its potential irrelevance, and what seems like a misguided pursuit of a de-dollarization strategy.However, the bloc provides an alternative to Western-led institutions like the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund — an entity that is remembered less for its economic forecasts, and more for the painful austerity measures it imposed in the wake of the Asian Financial Crisis of the late 1990s. While central banks in places like Indonesia and South Korea were no doubt responsible for much of their own problems, the sky-high interest rates the IMF insisted on squeezed the life out of their economies and decimated the middle class.Growing up in Indonesia in the 1990s, I witnessed the fallout firsthand. One of my starkest memories is the infamous photo in 1998 of then IMF Managing Director Michel Camdessus, standing with arms folded, towering above Indonesian President Suharto as he signed an unpopular bailout agreement. It is the picture of a colonial master lording over his protectorate, a symbol of Western imperialism and heavy-handedness.Suharto’s 32-year dictatorship ended when he stepped down against a backdrop of street protests triggered by the economic chaos four months later.
 
The news published on the date June 25, 2024 12:52 PM IST with headline  An electoral battle for the supply side is: 
 - Andy HaldaneObscured from view by political sloganeering, an ideological war is quietly being waged on both sides of the Atlantic. This is a conflict about how best to design and execute policies to boost medium-term economic growth. Welcome to the battle of the supply-siders.For most of the past half-century, the supply-side agenda of economic policy has been owned by the political right in the UK and US. The intellectual seeds of this revolution were sown in th
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 06:15 PM IST with headline  MC Exclusive | Union Budget may decriminalise over 100 provisions to boost ease of doing business is: 
 The Union Budget on July 23 is likely to focus on the ease of doing business by decriminalising over 100 provisions across multiple laws, including the Income Tax Act, in the second edition of the Jan Vishwas Bill, according to a government official.“The Jan Vishwas Bill II is almost finalised. A total of 580 provisions were analysed across various laws for decriminalisation. Out of these, 310 provisions have been retained as they are, and the remaining are under review for decriminalisation. It may be announced in the Union Budget,” the official said, requesting anonymity.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Bill seeks to put an end to criminal proceedings and imprisonment for minor offences, replacing them with monetary penalties. The changes aim to boost investor confidence and offer relief to courts overburdened with cases for minor offences, such as delayed payment of tax deducted at source. India Inc had suggested that the penalty should be a deterrent and TDS payment delays should be treated as a civil liability, according to an industry source.For the first time, the Bill aims to decriminalise certain provisions of the Income Tax Act. The Central Excise Act and Central Goods and Services Tax Act are also under review. He added that 130-180 provisions may become part of the Jan Vishwas Bill II for decriminalisation.Process of shortlisting
 
The news published on the date June 25, 2024 12:00 PM IST with headline  Indian imports of Russian coal fall, US shipments rise is: 
 Indian imports of Russian coal fall, US shipments rise Indian imports of Russian coal have declined while U.S. shipments have risen in the three months ending in May, data from coal consultancy Bigmint showed, which traders attributed to Russian supplies becoming less competitive.Russia's exports of all types of coal to India over the period fell 22.4% from a year earlier to 6.76 million metric tons, Bigmint's data showed. U.S. exports rose 14.4% to 6.68 million tons in the same period.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe decline in Indian imports of Russian coal was driven by a 67% plunge year-on-year in shipments of thermal coal, used mainly for power generation. Purchases of steelmaking grades such as coking coal, anthracite and pulverized coal injection (PCI) coal rose during the period, the Bigmint data showed.India is Russia's second-largest coal market after China and the decrease follows fresh western sanctions on Russia because of the war in Ukraine. However, buyers downplayed their impact and said Russia thermal coal was less attractive without lower discounts amid a drop in global prices."Main issue is thermal coal prices and not the sanctions. Logistics cost has gone up in Russia, that is why they are not able to compete," said K.C. Gandhi, Joint President of Materials Management at India's Shree Cement.
 
The news published on the date June 25, 2024 11:40 AM IST with headline  India digital currency transactions slump after reaching initial RBI target is: 
 India digital currency transactions slump after reaching initial RBI target Usage of India's digital currency, the e-rupee, has slumped to just a tenth of the peak hit in December, four sources said, reflecting the struggles several countries have experienced in trying to generate public support for digital currencies.The Reserve Bank of India started a pilot for the e-rupee, devised as a digital alternative to physical cash, in December 2022, and successfully reached a target of 1 million retail transactions per day by December 2023.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe achievement came only after banks were asked to push up transactions by offering incentives to retail users and disbursing a portion of bank employees' salaries using the e-rupee.But now that the push has diminished, daily transaction numbers have fallen to about 100,000, said two of the sources, who are directly involved in the pilot.This shows there is little organic demand to use the e-rupee, said a third source, a banker involved in the project.
 
The news published on the date June 25, 2024 09:26 AM IST with headline  Water shortage may affect India's growth, weigh on credit health: Moody’s Ratings is: 
 Water crisis could impact inflation, credit health India’s water shortage could be detrimental to the credit health of sovereign, water-dependent entities like coal power generators and steel-makers, global rating agency Moody’s Ratings alerted on June 25.The ratings agency pointed out that growing water crisis may exacerbate volatility in growth and undermine country's ability to withstand shocks. “India's fast economic growth, accompanied by rapid industrialisation and urbanisation, is reducing water availability in the world's most populous country,” it noted in a report.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe global rating agency highlighted that a drying water supply may affect farming, leading to higher food inflation and a decline in income for certain businesses.“India has the poorest access to basic services, including water, among G-20 economies, a key component for an assessment of the credit impact of ESG factors,” Moody’s said. ESG stands for environment, social and governance.Moody's sovereign rating for India is Baa3 with a stable outlook. The rating agency expects India to be fastest growing major economy with 6.5 percent growth in 2024.
 
The news published on the date June 25, 2024 08:10 AM IST with headline  RBI policymakers divided over rate-growth debate is: 
 RBI policymakers divided over rate-growth debate A consensus appears to be emerging among the external members of the Reserve Bank of India’s monetary policy committee that high interest rates are damaging to economic growth, a sign that the debate over the timing of any easing is intensifying.Jayanth Rama Varma and Ashima Goyal voted at the June meeting for a rate cut, arguing that too restrictive policy will hurt growth, recent minutes showed. Shashanka Bhide, the third external official on the six-member committee, voted against easing, but in an emailed response to questions, he acknowledged that inflation-adjusted rates above 1.5% “is not supportive of higher growth.” India’s real, or inflation-adjusted, rate is currently at 1.75%.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBhide still advocated for caution, though, saying rapid economic growth and inflation can be “sub-optimal.”The rest of the monetary policy committee is made up of RBI officials, who have stuck to their relatively hawkish stance on inflation, including Governor Shaktikanta Das. Any “hasty action” will do more harm than good, Das argued at the last MPC meeting, according to the minutes.
 
The news published on the date June 25, 2024 06:46 AM IST with headline  Cash Trade | Borosil Renewables is on the cusp of a falling channel breakout
 
The news published on the date June 25, 2024 06:46 AM IST with headline  Cash Trade | ABFRL: Price action shows a breakout-pullback trade set-up
 
The news published on the date June 24, 2024 06:42 PM IST with headline  India's current account deficit narrows to 0.7% of GDP in FY24; Q4 shows 0.6% surplus is: 
 Current account deficit narrows India’s current account deficit moderated to 0.7% of the GDP in FY24, compared with 2% in the previous years, on account of higher services trade and greater net portfolio inflows before India’s inclusion in the global bond index, data released by the Reserve Bank of India showed on Monday.The current account deficit for FY24 declined to $23.2 billion from $67 billion in the previous fiscal, as the current account turned positive in the last quarter of the year to 0.6% of the GDP or $5.7 billion.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn the year-ago period, the current account deficit stood at 0.2% of the GDP.Economists contend there is likely to be some slippage in CAD in FY25 to above 1% levels, but it is likely to stay manageable.“For FY25, going by the early trends, the CAD should be manageable at 1-1.5% of GDP, and the steady capital inflows should ensure that the balance of payments which reflect the fundamentals remain comfortable,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Bank of Baroda.
 
The news published on the date June 24, 2024 06:43 PM IST with headline  Current account swings to surplus in Jan-March quarter: RBI is: 
 The deficit stood at $1.3 billion or 0.2% of GDP in the same quarter a year ago India recorded a current account surplus of USD 5.7 billion or 0.6 per cent of GDP in the March quarter, the Reserve Bank of India said on Monday.In the year-ago period, the current account deficit stood at USD 1.3 billion or 0.2 per cent of GDP, and the same was USD 8.7 billion or 1 per cent of GDP in the preceding quarter ending December 2023. For FY24, the current account deficit narrowed to USD 23.2 billion or 0.7 per cent of GDP against USD 67 billion or 2 per cent of GDP in FY23, the RBI said in a release on the Developments in India's Balance of Payments. In January-March 2024, the merchandise trade deficit stood at USD 50.9 billion, lower than the USD 52.6 billion a year ago.Story continues below AdvertisementNet services receipts at USD 42.7 billion were higher than the USD 39.1 billion on the back of a 4.1 per cent growth in the segment, the central bank said, adding that this helped in swinging the current account into the surplus territory. Net outgo on the primary income account, mainly reflecting payments of investment income, increased to USD 14.8 billion from USD 12.6 billion a year ago, the data released by the RBI said.Private transfer receipts, which mainly represent remittances by Indians employed overseas, grew 11.9 per cent to USD 32 billion in the March quarter. The non-resident deposits also surged to USD 5.4 billion in January-March compared to USD 3.6 billion in the year-ago period.Net foreign direct investment flows were USD 2 billion in Q4 FY24 against USD 6.4 billion a year ago. Foreign portfolio investment recorded a net inflow of USD 11.4 billion during the quarter compared to a net outflow of USD 1.7 billion a year ago.Net inflows under external commercial borrowings to India were USD 2.6 billion against USD 1.7 billion.In FY24, the portfolio investment recorded a net inflow of USD 44.1 billion against an outflow of USD 5.2 billion a year ago, while net FDI plummeted to USD 9.8 billion from USD 28 billion in FY23, the RBI said
 
The news published on the date June 24, 2024 05:09 PM IST with headline  US homebuilders are in urgent need of Fed rate cuts is: 
 Privately held homebuilders are struggling in the more competitive environment. New home construction slumped to the weakest level in four years in May, confirming a trend that’s been evolving for the past few months — residential construction is once again acting as a drag on economic growth in the US.This should give the Federal Reserve more confidence that it’s appropriate to cut interest rates later this year. But it’s bad news for those hoping for an increase in supply to address America’s structural housing shortage. And it’s particularly bad news for communities dependent on smaller builders for more housing construction.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTo understand why construction starts are sputtering, it’s helpful to treat single-family and multifamily housing separately. The story in the multifamily segment is by now a familiar one: Developers built a ton of apartments in fast-growing metros in 2021 and 2022 when borrowing costs were low and rent growth was surging. We’re temporarily in a rental market downturn as that supply gets absorbed.Multifamily building permits fell in May to near their lowest level in a decade, and new construction is likely to remain low well into 2025. This is because there’s still a historically high number of units under construction, and developers — and their financiers — likely won’t have the confidence to begin a new building cycle until that number normalizes somewhat and rents grow more strongly. The decline in activity should have a modestly negative impact on construction employment and economic growth, adding to the case for rate cuts from the Fed.In single-family housing, the story is largely one of stability. New builds are no longer the only game in town — as they were in 2023 — with rising inventories of existing homes for sale making the market more competitive, particularly in places such as south Florida and Texas. At the same time, stubbornly high mortgage rates at around 7% have sidelined many buyers. Builders are responding to the subdued demand with steady to lower output compared with the burst of activity that came last year when interest from buyers was surprisingly buoyant. Hopes that strong single-family-construction growth would help fill a housing deficit of about 2 million homes have been dashed, at least with interest rates at current levels.
 
The news published on the date June 24, 2024 03:44 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Quick on the draw is: 
 Excitement about the Quick Commerce segment of e-commerce is not new. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIs Quick Commerce the 800-pound gorilla that’s going to take India’s retail market by storm? That’s the question that comes to mind when trying to understand the impact of Zepto’s $665 million (Rs 5,500 crore) fund-raising exercise that was announced last week. While that gives Zepto a valuation of $3.6 billion (Rs 30,000 crore), the amount raised comes on the back of another $231 million in August 2023.Excitement about the Quick Commerce segment of e-commerce is not new. The main reason for that is not the capital flowing into the business, but the uptake among consumers. Initial scepticism of most people that a 10-minute delivery promise is not enough to make consumers pivot to these brands for their limited grocery offering has been proved wrong. It has forced organised e-commerce players to shake up their act and provide quicker delivery even while they may say it does not make economic sense.But the amount raised raises the stakes by compelling backers of other players to pull up their socks as competition in their markets will intensify, and may also have to invest more to maintain their share of the market. Zepto intends to use this amount to double the number of outlets from where they service orders to 700 and also expand into newer markets, according to the Moneycontrol report.
 
The news published on the date June 24, 2024 02:53 PM IST with headline  India is engineering a future as AI disrupts the software industry is: 
 Multinationals are writing a template on how to use India’s engineering talent to create intellectual property. In the early 2000s, Alok Nanda’s new colleagues called him the “bumper guy.”Nanda's job at General Electric Co back then was putting some plastic between the bumper and the beam of a Suzuki Swift. The plastics division, which traced its history to the early days of synthetic rubber, had hired the young engineer from the state-run Defense Research & Development Organization, placed him at one of GE’s new facilities on the outskirts of Bengaluru, and asked him to find a cost-efficient way to reduce the impact on pedestrians in auto accidents.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTwo decades later, the former bumper guy and the John F. Welch Technology Center he now heads in Bengaluru are executing far more complex projects. In the process, they’re writing a template for multinationals on how to use India’s engineering talent to create intellectual property, not just cut costs.This is very different from the code-writing work that has brought the most-populous nation global recognition in the last quarter-century. While software outsourcing will face an existential challenge from generative artificial intelligence, the engineering prowess — if harnessed well — will launch the next wave of productive and lucrative jobs.Policymakers in New Delhi have their sight on China’s factory-to-the-world crown. They are spending $24 billion over five years on production-linked incentives. Trouble is, the rivalry is not limited to other Asian countries like Vietnam, which have the same goal and are ahead in the game. The US, too, is running a very generous industrial policy to revive its manufacturing past.
 
The news published on the date June 24, 2024 02:44 PM IST with headline  Madhya Pradesh surpasses Punjab in cereal output: Govt data is: 
 Punjab loses to MP, Telangana Punjab, once known as India's food bowl, has lost its position as the second-highest cereal producer by output value. A Moneycontrol analysis of data released on Friday showed that it ceded the spot to Madhya Pradesh in FY22 and has since fallen further behind. West Bengal, the fourth-largest cereal producer until FY22, has dropped to fifth place, overtaken by Telangana.One of the most striking developments in the Indian agricultural landscape is the meteoric rise of Telangana. Over the past decade, it has emerged as the fastest-growing major state in terms of cereal output. With an annual average growth rate of 9.6% between FY12 and FY23, it has outpaced the national average of 2% by a significant margin.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“Telangana has invested heavily in irrigation infrastructure, building large reservoirs and check dams in addition to putting effective water management initiatives like the Mission Kakatiya into action. This has led to an increase in the amount of water available for agricultural use in an area with a semi-arid climate,” said Vishal Dagar, assistant professor, Great Lakes Institute of Management, Gurugram.When it comes to growth rates, the disparities are stark. While Madhya Pradesh has shown a robust growth of 7.6% over the past decade, Punjab and West Bengal have lagged, expanding at a mere 0.7% and 1.1% respectively. This data underscores the shifting positions of states in cereal production.
 
The news published on the date June 24, 2024 02:15 PM IST with headline  Five key ways the Bank of England outperformed its peers is: 
 Five ways in which the Bank of England has outperformed many others in recent years. While the Sunak government has not hesitated in claiming credit for the return of the UK inflation rate to 2 percent after three years of exceeding that target, the Bank of England has proven notably reserved despite the country now having fewer price pressures than France, Germany and the US. Part of this modesty reflects concern that the rate of inflation may go back up by the end of the year.But there is also a cultural aspect at play. The Bank tends to be humble in highlighting its accomplishments, despite these being at the forefront of central bank practice and despite some already having been replicated by other central banks. Sounds strange? It shouldn’t. Here are five ways in which the Bank has outperformed many others in recent years:Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFor starters, it was the first to recognize that it had been a mistake to describe the 2021-22 inflation surge as transitory, and it was quick to publicly share an assessment of what led to the mischaracterization.Second, the Bank aptly handled the critical risk of financial disorder during the Liz Truss period while limiting the moral hazard risk. I certainly will not forget when, in the face of hedge funds stubbornly declining to close out their overleveraged positions at a loss, Governor Andrew Bailey stood firm on that famous Tuesday in reminding the funds that the Bank’s exceptional financial support would end on the Friday - and it did, with the funds backing down.Third, rather than signal false precision as the Federal Reserve repeatedly does via its dot plot, the Bank is clear about the unusual uncertainty facing policymaking these days. The message is further reinforced by the publication of the voting results of the Monetary Policy Committee, the top policymaking body, which more than once has included split votes with members on both sides of the majority decision.
 
The news published on the date June 24, 2024 01:59 PM IST with headline  Centre imposes stockholding limit on wheat to check hoarding, ensure price stability is: 
 Centre imposes stockholding limit on wheat to check hoarding, ensure price stability Centre has imposed a stockholding limit on wheat for retailers, wholesalers, processors and big-chain retailers from Monday, to check the hoarding of the foodgrain and to ensure price stability, a senior official said on Monday.Single retailers, big-chain retailers, processors and wholesalers will disclose wheat stocks every Friday, said Union Food Secretary Sanjeev Chopra in a press briefing here.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdChopra stressed that "I want to dispel the shortage of wheat in the country." He also noted that there is no ban on wheat exports as of now and there is no proposal to review a ban on export of sugar.He stated, "We want prices of wheat to be stable." Chopra further informed that the stock limit for wholesalers will be 3,000 tonnes, while it would be 70 per cent of the processing capacity for processors.For big chain retailers it would be 10 tonnes per outlet with an overall limit for 3,000 tonnes and for single retailers it would be 10 tonnes, he informed.
 
The news published on the date June 24, 2024 01:45 PM IST with headline  FinMin to meet CEOs of PSBs on Tuesday, review progress of financial inclusion schemes is: 
 FinMin to meet CEOs of PSBs on Tuesday, review progress of financial inclusion schemes The finance ministry has called a meeting of heads of Public Sector Banks (PSBs) on Tuesday to review progress of various financial inclusion schemes, including PM Vishwakarma, Jan Suraksha and Mudra Yojana.The meeting is scheduled to be chaired by Financial Services Secretary Vivek Joshi.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAccording to sources, the meeting would review the progress of various flagship schemes, including PM Vishwakarma, StandUp India, PM SVANidhi , among others.Other financial inclusion related issues would also be discussed in the meeting, sources said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi in September last year launched PM Vishwakarma scheme under which traditional craftsmen and artisans will be provided loan assistance at a minimal interest rate without the need for collateral.
 
The news published on the date June 24, 2024 12:50 PM IST with headline  Eastern Coalfields begins first-ever pilot project for underground coal gasification in Jharkhand is: 
 Eastern Coalfields begins first-ever pilot project for underground coal gasification in Jharkhand The government on Monday said Eastern Coalfields Ltd, a Coal India subsidiary, has commenced its first-ever pilot project for underground coal gasification in Jharkhand.Underground coal gasification (UCG) is a method of converting coal still in the ground to a combustible gas that can be used for various uses, including power generation.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Under the strategic direction of the Ministry of Coal, Eastern Coalfields Ltd (ECL) has embarked on an innovative pilot project for Underground Coal Gasification at the Kasta coal block in Jamtara district, Jharkhand," the coal ministry said in a statement.The move indicates the Centre's proactive diversification efforts within the coal mining sector.The initiative aims to revolutionise the coal industry by using in-situ coal gasification to convert it into valuable gases such as methane, hydrogen, carbon monoxide, and carbon dioxide. These gases can be utilised to produce synthetic natural gas, chemical feedstock for fuels, fertilizers, explosives, and other industrial applications.
 
The news published on the date June 27, 2024 05:43 PM IST with headline  Budget 2025: FinMin to review Mudra Yojana, financial inclusion schemes tomorrow is: 
 Mudra yojana facilitates loans up to Rs 10 lakh to income generating micro enterprises. Ahead of the Union Budget, the finance ministry on June 25 called for a detailed review of various financial inclusion schemes, including Mudra Yojana, which boosts employment creation in micro and small entities.All public sector banks have been called to the meeting to be chaired by Financial Services Secretary Vivek Joshi.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe June 25 meet will review the targets under the Mudra Yojana and Stand-up India scheme, a person aware of the development told Moneycontrol.The Mudra Yojana facilitates loans up to Rs 10 lakh to income generating micro enterprises engaged in the non-farm sector in manufacturing, trading or service sectors including activities allied to agriculture such as poultry, dairy and beekeeping. The government has extended over 43 crore loans aggregating to Rs 22.5 lakh crore under the PM Mudra Yojana since its launch in 2015.The Stand-Up India scheme on the other hand supports entrepreneurship among women and SC and ST communities.
 
The news published on the date June 24, 2024 11:46 AM IST with headline  Some Indian rate panelists see growth risks from tight policy is: 
 Some Indian rate panelists see growth risks from tight policy India's economy needs an interest rate cut to sustain high growth, two external members of the central bank's rate panel said, arguing that food price shocks so far have not added to broader inflationary pressures.Ashima Goyal and Jayanth Varma, who are members on the Reserve Bank of India's monetary policy committee (MPC), both voted to cut the benchmark rate at the last policy meeting, dissenting against the four who voted to keep it unchanged at 6.5%.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMeanwhile, Shashanka Bhide, a third external MPC member who voted for a status quo, acknowledged that the growth outlook is an "important consideration" in setting policy.The views of the three members show increasing concern among policymakers about momentum in Asia's third-largest economy, even as inflation holds stubbornly above the RBI's 4% target.Monetary policy typically acts with lags of three to five quarters, which means the higher rates would impact growth next year and not the current year, said Varma, who has voted for a rate cut for two straight meetings.
 
The news published on the date June 24, 2024 11:24 AM IST with headline  Govt to focus on job creation, farmers’ concerns in first 100 days: S&P Global Market Intelligence is: 
 Farmers' concern to be part of 100 day agenda S&P Global Market Intelligence said on Monday that the new government will likely focus on job creation and addressing farmers’ concerns in its first 100 days.“India’s recent parliamentary elections have resulted in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s continued leadership, although the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has lost its majority and now relies on coalition parties for stability and policy passage,” the research firm said in a note.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Bharatiya Janata Party won 240 seats in the recently concluded national elections, falling short of the 272-majority mark.The firm noted that India will likely continue its production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme to boost manufacturing. The PLI scheme covers 13 sectors and has benefits that extend until 2025.“The success of the scheme, measured by increased exports in key sectors, is likely to result in its continuation. The production of Apple Inc.’s iPhone in India has helped drive total exports of phones 46 percent higher year over year in the past three months,” S&P Global noted.
 
The news published on the date June 24, 2024 11:02 AM IST with headline  S&P retains India's FY'25 GDP growth estimate at 6.8% is: 
 S&P retains India's FY'25 GDP growth estimate at 6.8% S&P Global Ratings on Monday retained India's GDP growth forecast for the current financial year at 6.8 per cent and said high interest rates and lower fiscal spur would temper demand.In its economic outlook for Asia Pacific, S&P Global Ratings said India's economic growth continues to surprise on the upside with the economy growing 8.2 per cent in fiscal year 2023-24.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"We expect growth to moderate to 6.8 per cent this fiscal year, with high interest rates and lower fiscal spur tempering demand in the non-agricultural sectors," it said.For the fiscal years 2025-26 and 2026-27, S&P projected growth rates of 6.9 per cent and 7 per cent, respectively.S&P's estimates for FY'25 is lower than that of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), which earlier this month projected the Indian economy to expand at 7.2 per cent in the current fiscal, on the back of improving rural demand and moderating inflation.
 
The news published on the date June 24, 2024 08:48 AM IST with headline  Key GST reforms remain in a wait mode is: 
 Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman at the 53rd GST Council meeting on June 22, 2024 HighlightsThe 53rd GST Council meeting was held after a long gapThe meeting focused mostly on sector-specific compliance issuesNo discussion on key issues, such as rate rationalisation and fuel levyGoM on rates reconstituted; FM puts the fuel-levy ball in states’ courtBig-ticket issues should be addressed quickly to make the GST structure robus
 
The news published on the date June 22, 2024 10:27 PM IST with headline  GST Council waives off interest, penalty on retrospective notices for 2017-2020 is: 
 The next Council meeting will be held in August. The Goods and Service Tax (GST) Council in its 53rd meeting on June 22 waived off interest and penalty on tax demand notices for the period 2017-2020, provided the assessees pay the tax by March 31, 2025, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said.“The Council recommended waiving off the interest and penalty for cases that fall under section 73,” Sitharaman said at a press briefing.The next Council meeting will be held in August, she added.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBiometric authenticationIn order to plug the loophole of fake invoicing, the Council also approved pan-India roll out of Aadhaar-based biometric authentication for assessees, which will be implemented immediately in a phased manner.Rate rationalisation
 
The news published on the date June 22, 2024 10:01 PM IST with headline  GST Council approves enabling amendment to quash retrospective tax demands is: 
 Real-money gaming sector currently forms the bulk of revenues of India's overall gaming industry The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council on June 22 recommended an amendment to the Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) Act, 2017, that would empower the government to discuss and overrule any retrospective GST demand sent by tax authorities.In the 53rd GST Council meet, the Council recommended inserting Section 11A to the GST Act to empower the government to regularise instances of non-levy or short-levy of GST, based on the Council's recommendations, when such tax was not being paid due to common trade practices.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe amendment, once passed by the parliament and state legislatures, is expected to pave the way towards providing relief to India's burgeoning real-money gaming (RMG) companies who have received GST notices for the period between July 2017 and March 2023.The amendment however applies to all sectors, not just real-money gaming sector.Retrospective tax challenge for RMG firms
 
The news published on the date June 22, 2024 03:07 PM IST with headline  FM Sitharaman chairs 53rd GST Council meeting: 6 key expectations is: 
 This will be the first GST Council meeting of the new term of the Modi 3.0 government Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman is chairing the 53rd meeting of the GST (Goods & Services Tax) Council, her first in the new term of the Modi 3.0 government.The GST Council is likely to deliberate on key issues, including taxation on online gaming, an amendment to overrule retrospective tax demands and reviewing a possible exemption for reinsurance.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe GST Council includes finance ministers of all states and Union Territories.Here are the key expectations for the GST Council meeting on June 22:28% GST on online gaming: Moneycontrol had reported earlier that the council is unlikely to review the contentious 28% tax on online gaming, sticking to its earlier stance. This decision comes amid debates over the potential impact on the burgeoning online gaming industry and concerns about distinguishing games of skill from games of chance.
 
The news published on the date June 21, 2024 08:01 PM IST with headline  Share of fishing doubles in India's agri output while cereals decline: MoSPI is: 
 Fishing's share in agriculture output increased The share of fishing and aquaculture rose to its highest level in India’s agriculture output, doubling over the last decade, a report released by the Union Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MoSPI) showed on June 21. While the share of crops has declined, there have been changes within crop categories as well, with fruits accounting for a larger share than cereals.While crops and livestock still account for nearly 85 percent of India’s total agriculture output, the share of fishing and aquaculture rose to 6.9 percent in FY23 compared with 4.2 percent in FY12, as per the Statistical Report on Value of Output from Agriculture and Allied Sectors 2024.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPotato and onions' share has risen. Banana has pipped mango as the fruit that contributed most to output.ALSO READ: GDP growth surpasses estimates at 7.8% in Q4; FY24 tops 8%
 
The news published on the date June 21, 2024 07:42 PM IST with headline  Council to discuss amendment to overrule retrospective GST demands: Official is: 
 A batch of 30 petitions by online real money gaming companies is currently pending before the Supreme Court. The Goods and Services Tax or GST Council at its June 22 meeting is likely to approve an enabling provision to empower it to discuss and overrule any retrospective GST demand sent by tax authorities. The tax treatment sought by online gaming companies may also be discussed in the meeting later, if representations are received from the sector, a government official said.The GST Council is likely to discuss and approve an enabling amendment to the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017, to introduce Section 11A in the June 22 meeting.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“It is an empowering section to enable the GST Council to decide in case of any tax clarification that it will apply only prospectively, so that no demands are raised for the earlier period. The council will be enabled to take an ‘as is, where is’ stand on taxation of any sector where there may be a tax demand raised retrospectively due to interpretation,” the official told Moneycontrol.Following the amendment, the council will discuss cases of retrospective tax demands if representations come from various sectors.ALSO READ: Council unlikely to review 28% GST on online gaming at June 22 meeting
 
The news published on the date June 21, 2024 04:56 PM IST with headline  State Bank of India pays record dividend of close to Rs 7,000 cr to Centre is: 
 The cheque was presented by Dinesh Kumar Khara, the chairman of country’s largest public sector lender, to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × The State Bank of India on June 21 provided the Central government a cheque of Rs 6,959.29 crore as its dividend income for the financial year 2023-24, beating past year’s payment record.The cheque was presented by Dinesh Kumar Khara, the chairman of country’s largest public sector lender, to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“Smt @nsitharaman receives a dividend cheque of Rs 6,959.29 crore for FY 2023-24 from @TheOfficialSBI chairman Shri Dinesh Kumar Khara,” the official handle of the finance minister said in a post on X.For FY23, the lender had given a cheque of Rs 5,740 crore as its dividend income to the government. Last year’s payment was the highest-ever dividend given in any financial year.FM Budget review meeting: Sitharaman also received a cheque of Rs 857.16 crore from the Bank of Maharashtra as dividend payment for the March-ended financial year. The cheque was provided by Nidhu Saxena, managind director and & chief executive officer of the bank.Meanwhile, on June 21, the finance minister also chaired the fourth pre-Budget consultation meeting with various farmers associations and agriculture economists, the ministry said in a post on X.The meeting was also attended by Union minister of state for finance Pankaj Chaudhary, finance secretary T V Somanathan, economic affairs secretary Ajay Seth, and various senior officers from the agriculture and the corporate affairs ministry. Chief economic adviser V Anantha Nageswaran had also attended the meeting
 
The news published on the date June 21, 2024 04:29 PM IST with headline  Business in the Week Ahead: June 24-28 is: 
 Planner India's economy is exiting the June 2024 quarter (Q1 FY25) on an upbeat note. The HSBC Flash Composite PMI Output index, an index that measures month-on-month change in the combined output of India's manufacturing and service sectors, increased from 60.5 in May to 60.9 in June. The rise in the composite flash PMI indicates an improvement in private sector activity. The growth is stronger at goods producers than at service providers. “New orders gained growth momentum fo
 
The news published on the date June 21, 2024 03:32 PM IST with headline  Europe Elections: Climate change notches a win is: 
 On climate, Europe and the world must do more, not less. The European Union’s efforts to combat climate change have suffered an electoral blow. Its centrist leaders need to wake up before this setback clears the way for an environmental catastrophe.Five years ago, voters in European Parliament elections demanded action to fight global warming. Now the “green wave” has subsided. In the latest elections, hard-right populist groups won more than a quarter of seats, up from about a fifth in the outgoing Parliament — in part by opposing the EU’s environmental policy and portraying its authors as elitist and out of touch. Support for Green candidates slid to 7 percent from 10 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhat happened? One can’t accuse the EU’s leaders of ignoring climate change. On the contrary, they’ve put Europe at the forefront of the global green transition. They adopted the Green Deal pledge, which aims to eliminate net carbon emissions by 2050. They stuck with renewable-friendly energy-market reforms even amid the shock of Russia’s war in Ukraine. They accelerated carbon dioxide reductions under what is already the world’s largest cap-and-trade system. And they introduced a new tax on carbon-intensive imports, employing the EU’s power as a trading partner to influence climate policy beyond its borders.Meanwhile, far-right parties that once focused on immigration discovered the environment as an issue to exploit. They latched on to farmers’ protests, amplifying frustration with policies aimed at ensuring animal welfare, preserving the land’s productivity and reducing agricultural emissions. They notched electoral gains by fanning consumers’ concerns about the costs of green technologies — such as heat pumps in Germany. Taking down the Green Deal is among their top priorities in the European Parliament’s next term.The EU’s centrists are making concessions. They’ve begun abandoning or diluting plans to tighten environmental standards, including on heating systems and vehicle emissions. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, of the center-right European People’s Party, has stepped back from the green agenda she championed and seems willing to work with climate-policy skeptics in the European Conservatives and Reformists Party.
 
The news published on the date June 21, 2024 03:23 PM IST with headline  The Reading List: June 21, 2024 is: 
 Your weekend read from the world of economy, business and finance. In a world strapped for time, we thought you may find it useful to have a selection of articles we read this past week. As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. Occasionally, we may stray from these subjects.These links may be from external websites we frequent o
 
The news published on the date June 21, 2024 03:10 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Last hurrah for bank shares? is: 
 The banking sector continues to struggle with deposit growth, although some signs of relief are beginning to emerge. Dear Reader,Around a month ago, we had asked a question: Is the banking party finally over? Lip-smacking return ratios, ultra-low bad loan pile and fattened net interest margins could finally be at an inflection point, we had argued. Indeed, the underwhelming performance of banking stocks relative to the broader market gave conviction to this idea of a finale.Fast forward to today, the party seems to have gotten extended, much to the delight of investors. Nifty Bank index has surged about 6 percent so far this month, leaving behind the broader Nifty with a 4 percent gain.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBut if we parse through data that show how the banking sector has fared, nothing much has changed in the past three months. The banking sector continues to struggle with deposit growth, although some signs of relief are beginning to emerge. Absolute deposit accretion in the first fortnight of June was higher than absolute expansion in credit. Even so, there remains a wide wedge between credit and deposit growth, and banks would face pressure on their margins in FY25. Our Chart of the Day details how return ratios of banks may come under duress this year because of the expected margin compression.Of course, the pain would be mild and return on assets and return on equity would be superior to previous years. Analysts have continued to maintain that banking valuations may be nearing a peak and the sharpened regulatory oversight and punitive actions must keep investors cautious.What has changed for investors to load up on banking shares this month?A lot has to do with the outcome of national elections on June 4. A coalition government was unexpected, and investors are dialling back on the reform aggression they earlier expected from the centre. Coalitions mean delays in decisions and lack of resolve in taking hard decisions. Simply put, the hopes of privatisation of public sector banks and reduction in the grip of the government are now gone. That has now been replaced with concerns that the government could use its lenders to further some of its populist schemes. The discomforting dread of loan melas and waivers has entered investors’ minds. Ergo, public sector banks that had powered the banking stock rally in the previous months have now been pushed back. Despite this change, the public banks are still loved because where else can the government push its capex thrust?
 
The news published on the date June 21, 2024 01:55 PM IST with headline  Govt should engage National Statistical Commission more actively: NSC chairman RL Karandikar is: 
 NSC Chairman The government should engage the National Statistical Commission more actively to ensure the robustness of surveys, RL Karandikar, chairman of NSC, told Moneycontrol.“The government needs to be more proactive in engaging the NSC for data across the board,” Karandikar said, highlighting that the statistical commission could play a larger role.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe comments come when the ministry has been looking at ways to improve the country's statistical framework.The NSC, in the past, has not been consulted on certain surveys.Earlier this year, it was highlighted that the body was not consulted while releasing the fact sheet of the Household Consumption Expenditure Survey, which is instrumental in determining a new base and basket for consumer inflation calculations.
 
The news published on the date June 21, 2024 01:50 PM IST with headline  India formalised Rs 26 lakh crore of the economy in seven years: SBI Research is: 
 Indian economy is turning more formal India has formalised Rs 26 lakh crore of the economy in seven years, State Bank of India researchers noted in a report released on June 21.Estimating the share of the informal economy from the recently released Annual Survey of Unincorporated Sector Enterprises, SBI researchers found that the share of the informal economy had fallen to 23.7% in FY23 from 25.9% in FY16.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“Distribution of labour force (~568 million) shows 45% of the labour force is still informal, with the usual suspects of agriculture (25.5%) and services (13.9%) accounting for close to 40% of total workforce / 88% of the informal workforce,” the report pointed out.The researchers said the e-Shram portal, which has registered 297 million unorganised workers, could further fast-track the formalisation process.
 
The news published on the date June 21, 2024 12:32 PM IST with headline  GST Council likely to discuss relief for reinsurers: Official is: 
 By definition, 18 percent tax is levied on any supply of service. The GST (Goods and Services Tax) Council is set to issue a clarification that reinsurance is not supply of service at its June 22 meeting. The meeting is also likely to issue a clarification on GST applicable on co-insurance, a government official said.In its attempt to not disrupt insurance industry practices, the council is likely to discuss issuing a clarification that reinsurance is not a supply of service, a government official told Moneycontrol.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBy definition, 18 percent tax is levied on any supply of service.“The GST’s fitment committee has already discussed the issue and it is proposed that reinsurance should not be treated as supply and hence no GST should be applied on it. The fitment committee proposal will be placed before the GST Council in the June 22 meeting,” the official told Moneycontrol.What is reinsurance?
 
The news published on the date June 21, 2024 12:26 PM IST with headline  China’s shopping slump will force ecommerce laggards overseas is: 
 Combined gross merchandise volume for China’s largest ecommerce groups fell 7 per cent. China has its own versions of Black Friday: 618 and Singles day. These annual shopping festivals, in June and November, are massive events for local shoppers and ecommerce groups. Until now, the sales figures for the June festival have been record breaking, with global celebrities joining the marketing drive to set the tone on spending for the rest of the year.But this year, despite Rihanna making Chinese breakfast crepes on a livestream, sales are breaking records fo
 
The news published on the date June 21, 2024 03:05 PM IST with headline  Here’s how to sync GST rationalisation with India’s consumption anchored growth is: 
 GST revenue collections are positively influenced by the tightening of tax enforcement over the last few years. By Sacchidananda Mukherjee Many countries, including ours, have adopted multiple rate structures in the GST system, a complex mechanism designed to make it progressive.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIt is often assumed that items (goods and services) either exempted from the GST or attracting lower GST rates constitute a significant share of the consumption basket of people from lower economic strata. However, recent studies show that exemptions and tax rate differentiation have little impact on the distributional aspects of the GST, underscoring the need for a more nuanced understanding of this system.GST’s Ambit Is RestrictedMy research showed that a large part of our consumption basket is either exempted from the GST or placed in a lower tax bracket (<5%). On average, 14.5% of our consumption falls outside the GST system (e.g., consumption of electricity, petrol, diesel, compressed natural gas, alcoholic beverages), and only about 28% of our consumption attracts a tax rate of more than 5%.
 
The news published on the date June 21, 2024 11:11 AM IST with headline  Private sector activity regains momentum, rises to 60.9 in June is: 
 Flash PMI data for June Private sector activity regained some momentum, rising to 60.9 in June from a five-month low of 60.5 in May, as the manufacturing sector accelerated, according to preliminary results of a private survey released on Friday.“New orders gained growth momentum for both sectors, with a faster upturn among manufacturers,” said Maitreyi Das, Global Economist, HSBC.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdCapacity pressures forced firms to increase their staffing levels, with firms highlighting the fastest pace of employment growth in 18 years.“Growth strengthened at both manufacturers and service providers, with the quicker upturn among the former,” the report noted.The HSBC Flash India Composite Output Index remained above the 50 mark, which separates expansion from contraction.
 
The news published on the date June 21, 2024 10:08 AM IST with headline  Narendra Modi should give coalition allies more room to spend is: 
 Modi may depend for continued power on a motley crew of allies. Barely a fortnight after unexpected election results upended Indian politics, New Delhi looks to have settled into a familiar rut. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has apparently shrugged off his rebuke from voters and reasserted control of the federal government. While he may depend for continued power on a motley crew of allies, none have been given the sort of ministerial role that would suggest they will drive policy in coming years.Yet, as my colleague Andy Mukherjee has argued, this continuity conceals a great deal of ferment. The biggest change should be to relations between New Delhi and India’s influential state governments.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHowever, deferential Modi’s newly vital allies might appear, the fact is that they have plans, projects and constituencies of their own to cultivate. Coalitions in India aren’t like those in Europe, where common priorities are hammered out in advance and then shared publicly. Alliance politics involve continual give-and-take — and usually the smaller partners, many of whom command regional support bases, do quite a bit of the taking.We know enough to predict what they will ask for. Modi’s two biggest alliance partners — Bihar’s Janata Dal (United) and Andhra Pradesh’s Telugu Desam Party, headed by state chief ministers Nitish Kumar and Chandrababu Naidu, respectively — have long demanded a greater infusion of federal funds into their states’ coffers. Now that they are pivotal to power in New Delhi, they undoubtedly see a moment to cash in.Markets would seem to agree with that forecast: Companies linked to infrastructure projects in Andhra Pradesh have massively outperformed the indices over the past fortnight.
 
The news published on the date June 21, 2024 09:35 AM IST with headline  Will bond yields in India be lower for longer? is: 
 India's bond market is heading for a prolonged party HighlightsIndia’s 10-year bond yield has slipped over 20 basis points since index inclusion announcementFund managers hope for further 25-30 bps fall in bond yieldsCurrent ease in bond yields is driven mainly by demand from foreign investorsExpectations of policy rate cut, fiscal prudence, would help yields ease mor
 
The news published on the date June 20, 2024 06:11 PM IST with headline  Govt weighs interventions to stabilise rising wheat prices is: 
 Prices of wheat and wheat flour have increased by up to Rs 2 per kg from a year ago, according to the official data. The government on Thursday said it will undertake suitable policy interventions to ensure stability in wheat prices for consumers in the country.After a meeting of the committee of ministers chaired by Home Affairs and Cooperation Minister Amit Shah, the government said it has directed officials to keep a close watch on wheat prices.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPrices of wheat and wheat flour have increased by up to Rs 2 per kg from a year ago, according to the official data.As of June 20, the average retail price of wheat stood at Rs 30.99 per kg, up from Rs 28.95 a year ago, while wheat flour price rose to Rs 36.13 per kilogram as against Rs 34.29 per kg last year, the data showed.Also read: Heatwave to keep food inflation high in coming months, say economists
 
The news published on the date June 20, 2024 05:02 PM IST with headline  The positive side of India’s heat wave, industrial production to stay steady around 5% level: Economists is: 
 Coal, electricity to keep industrial growth steady in May, June Heat wave is likely to impact farm incomes and inflation negatively, but economists contend that it may end up having a positive impact for industrial production.Experts indicate that industrial growth will likely stay steady around 5% in the coming months, as electricity and coal production will keep the sector humming. Electricity has a 8% weight in the index, whereas mining account for 14.4% share.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“The impact of the heatwave is clearly visible through high frequency indicators such as coal production, electricity demand, etc. They were quite robust in April 2024 and helped in lifting up the IIP to touch 5%,” said Paras Jasrai, senior analyst, India Ratings.Coal production was 7.5% in April compared with 8.7% in the previous month and 9.1% in April 2023. Electricity generation had expanded 9.1% in April rising from 8.6% in the previous month, and a 1.1% contraction in April last year.The index of industrial production eased to 5% in April from 5.4% in the previous month, but stayed above the 5% mark for third consecutive month.
 
The news published on the date June 20, 2024 04:27 PM IST with headline  Indians' funds in Swiss banks plunge 70% to hit four-year low of Rs 9,771 cr is: 
 These are official figures reported by banks to the Swiss National Bank (SNB) and do not indicate the quantum of the much-debated alleged black money held by Indians in Switzerland. These figures also do not include the money that Indians, NRIs or others might have in Swiss banks in the names of third-country entities. Funds parked by Indian individuals and firms in Swiss banks, including through local branches and other financial institutions, fell sharply by 70 percent in 2023 to a four-year low of 1.04 billion Swiss Francs (Rs 9,771 crore), annual data from Switzerland's central bank showed on Thursday.The decline in aggregate funds of Indian clients with Swiss banks for the second consecutive year, after hitting a 14-year-high of CHF 3.83 billion in 2021, was largely driven by a sharp plunge in funds held through bonds, securities and various other financial instruments.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBesides, the amount in customer deposit accounts and funds held through other bank branches in India also declined significantly, the data showed.These are official figures reported by banks to the Swiss National Bank (SNB) and do not indicate the quantum of the much-debated alleged black money held by Indians in Switzerland. These figures also do not include the money that Indians, NRIs or others might have in Swiss banks in the names of third-country entities.The total amount of CHF 1,039.8 million, described by the SNB as 'total liabilities' of Swiss banks or 'amounts due to' their Indian clients at the end of 2023, included CHF 310 million in customer deposits (down from CHF 394 million at 2022-end), CHF 427 million held via other banks (down from CHF 1,110 million), CHF 10 million (down from CHF 24 million) through fiduciaries or trusts, and CHF 302 million as 'other amounts due to customers in form of bonds, securities and various other financial instruments (down from CHF 1,896 million).The total amount stood at a record high of nearly 6.5 billion Swiss francs in 2006, after which it has been mostly on a downward path, except for a few years including in 2011, 2013, 2017, 2020 and 2021, as per SNB data.While all four components had declined during 2019, the year 2020 saw a significant plunge in customer deposits, while there was a surge across all categories in 2021. During 2022, only the fiduciaries segment saw an increase.According to the SNB, its data for 'total liabilities' of Swiss banks towards Indian clients takes into account all types of funds of Indian customers at Swiss banks, including deposits from individuals, banks and enterprises. This includes data for branches of Swiss banks in India, as also non-deposit liabilities.Story continues below AdvertisementOn the other hand, the 'locational banking statistics' of the Bank for International Settlement (BIS), which have been described in the past by Indian and Swiss authorities as a more reliable measure for deposits by Indian individuals in Swiss banks, showed a decline of nearly 25 percent during 2023 in such funds to $70.6 million (Rs 663 crore).It had dropped by 18 percent in 2022 and by over 8 percent in 2021, after rising by nearly 39 percent in 2020.This figure takes into account deposits as well as loans of Indian non-bank clients of Swiss-domiciled banks and had shown an increase of 7 per cent in 2019, after declining by 11 percent in 2018 and by 44 percent in 2017.It peaked at over $2.3 billion (over Rs 9,000 crore) at the end of 2007.Swiss authorities have always maintained that assets held by Indian residents in Switzerland cannot be considered as 'black money' and they actively support India in its fight against tax fraud and evasion.An automatic exchange of information in tax matters between Switzerland and India has been in force since 2018. Under this framework, detailed financial information on all Indian residents having accounts with Swiss financial institutions since 2018, was provided for the first time to Indian tax authorities in September 2019 and this is being followed every year.In addition to this, Switzerland has been actively sharing details about accounts of Indians suspected to have indulged in financial wrongdoings after the submission of prima facie evidence. Such exchange of information has taken place in hundreds of cases so far.The overall funds of foreign clients, including institutions, declined to CHF 983 billion (over Rs 92 lakh crore) in 2023, from CHF 1.15 trillion at the end of 2022.In terms of assets, Indian clients accounted for CHF 1.46 million at the end of 2023, marking a decline of 63 percent from the previous year and the lowest level in over two decades.This included dues from Indian customers worth about CHF 188 million, up from CHF 164 million at the end of 2022.While the UK topped the charts for foreign clients' money in Swiss banks at CHF 254 billion, it was followed by the US (CHF 71 billion) at the second spot and France (CHF 64 billion) at the third place.These three were followed in the top 10 by West Indies, Germany, Hong Kong, Singapore, Luxembourg and Guernsey.India was placed at 67th place, down from 46th place at the end of 2022.Pakistan also saw a dip to CHF 286 million (from CHF 388 million), while Bangladesh witnessed a sharp plunge from CHF 55 million to CHF 18 million.Just like in India, the issue of alleged black money in Swiss banks has been a political hot potato in the two neighbouring countries as well
 
The news published on the date June 20, 2024 03:32 PM IST with headline  China will struggle to undo US dominance is: 
 China's slice dipped to 3%, a bit less than half what is was in the decade through 2019. The hottest thing in global economics is an oldie but a goodie. This market darling is enjoying enviable growth and sucking in capital from around the world. It possesses a vibrant labor market and a currency that's not just a store of value, but increasingly seen as an ascendant strategic asset. And it’s not the China of yesteryear.The lucky country is the US, a place so often said to have been on the verge of eclipse for various reasons such as big deficits, the euro and China's seemingly inexorable climb to economic supremacy. Numerous threats have fizzled or have been proven exaggerated. There's little denying that the past few years have seen a major shift in how the relative strengths and weaknesses of the two are assessed. For now, the US economy is in a good place, as a couple of new reports indicate. Perhaps the biggest threat comes not from outside, but has its origins in domestic strains.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe term de-dollarization has been fashionable in recent years. It's a pithy way of describing disillusionment with the greenback, in part because of sanctions against Washington's antagonists. Viewed cynically, this is a successor to dollar debasement, a conservative rally cry in the years immediately after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., when the Federal Reserve embarked on massive easing. The dollar collapse didn't happen then and isn't occurring now, according to figures from International Monetary Fund sent to Bloomberg News.The US attracted almost one-third of investment that flowed across borders since the pandemic erupted, a marked increase from the pre-Covid average of 18%, the IMF numbers showed. China's slice dipped to 3%, a bit less than half what is was in the decade through 2019. That jives with data from Beijing: Foreign investment slowed for a fourth month in April and is down 36% from the same period a year earlier.The once-thriving industry that churned out timetables for when China would overtake the US has gone quiet. In a major global review, Capital Economics projects America will be dominant for some time. This judgement rests on the dollar’s premier role, the size and scope of US capital markets, an abundance of natural resources and, at a time of doomsaying about dwindling fertility, a sound expansion in the labor force. Could this conclusion have been reached at any time? Quite possibly, but vital ingredients are a lead in artificial intelligence and a re-affirmation of financial prowess. “If you just look at pure economic dominance, China hasn't come anywhere close to the US and we don't think it ever will,” Jennifer McKeown, the firm’s chief global economist, told me. “There has been a major shift in thinking around this. Economists have been coming around to the view that China’s model just isn’t sustainable.”
 
The news published on the date June 20, 2024 04:57 PM IST with headline  EPFO records highest-ever addition of 18.92 lakh net members in April is: 
 Gender-wise analysis of payroll data unveils that out of 8.87 lakh new members, around 2.49 lakh are new female members. Retirement fund body EPFO on June 20 said it added 18.92 lakh members on a net basis in April 2024, highest ever since the first payroll data was published in April 2018.Around 8.87 lakh members enrolled for the first time with the EPFO in April, a labour ministry statement said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAccording to the statement, an increase of 31.29 percent has been registered in net member addition during the current month as compared to the previous month of March 2024. Further, the year-on-year analysis reveals a growth of 10 percent in net member additions compared to April 2023.ALSO READ: EPFO fixes 8.25 % interest rate on employees' provident fund for 2023-24"This surge in membership can be attributed to various factors, including increased employment opportunities, a growing awareness of employee benefits, and the effectiveness of EPFO's outreach programs," the statement added.
 
The news published on the date June 20, 2024 02:50 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Rural consumption conundrum is: 
 All eyes are now on the monsoon. Will it be supportive for rural consumption this year? Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe big question is whether the election results will push the Centre to act on faltering rural consumption. One of the first big decisions of the Union Cabinet in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's third term in office has been to hike the minimum support price (MSP) for about 14 Kharif crops. The move is aimed at boosting farmers’ income and consequently improving rural conditions. Other decisions such as the payout on account of the Kisan Nidhi scheme and the boost to affordable housing, are also aimed at boosting consumption.While the MSP hike is welcome, it is not unusually high. Media reports state that the increase ranges between 1.4 and 12.5 per cent, with paddy, the most widely cultivated crop, seeing a notable 5.35 per cent rise in its MSP. How much this will alleviate farmers’ woes remains to be seen. “What really matters is the level of procurement of these crops and while wheat and paddy see concerted efforts by the government in procurement at MSP, the same does not take place for other crops,” says my colleague Ravi Ananthanarayanan in this article.Per media reports earlier this month, S&P Global Market Intelligence highlighted that weak private consumption in India remains the largest concern, with rural demand in particular struggling to catch up. This ironically comes at a time when the country’s overall economic growth remains strong. Explaining the rural-urban divide, Barclays Research (India) explains that the slower private consumption is partly attributed to rural consumers while urban consumption has weathered the storm better.
 
The news published on the date June 20, 2024 03:41 PM IST with headline  MC Daily Monsoon Tracker: North India stares at a huge rain deficit; Delhi worst is: 
 North India is facing a dry spell Delhi, Chandigarh, Haryana and Punjab have faced a huge rain deficit in the first 19 days of June. A Moneycontrol analysis shows that Northern Indian states are facing largest rainfall deficits compared to normal, but the situation for the rest of the country is not too encouraging either. The country had a rainfall deficit of 18% for period between June 1 and June 19.In monsoon parlance, a normal is calculated using long-period average of 30 years for a specific region.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA deficit is computed in percentage terms if the rainfall was below the long-period average.Except for seven states and union territories which have received more rainfall than the normal, rest of the country was facing a deficit. Moreover, in 14 states precipitation was lower than 50% during this period. Some of these include, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Gujarat.In Delhi, Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana the departure is more than -90%. (see graphic)Further analysis shows that reservoir levels compound the problem. For the country as a whole reservoir levels are down 18% compared with the normal or long-term average.Story continues below AdvertisementSome states like Bihar, Andhra Pradesh have an over 50% deficit in reservoir levels.Economists contend that the situation can end up hurting farm income, agricultural output and consumer inflation. Food inflation was sticky above 8% in May and is likely to stay elevated in the coming months.Pulses and vegetable inflation has been in double digits since over six months, meanwhile fruits inflation is inching up.A higher food inflation means that rural inflation has outstripped urban inflation for nearly a year and is likely to do so in coming months.A high rural inflation further eats into wages, which affects rural economy.The agricultural sector recorded 1.4% growth in FY24, compared to 4.7% in the previous year, lower than 3.7% long-term average
 
The news published on the date June 20, 2024 04:13 PM IST with headline  MSP announcements didn’t pander to farmers. But NDA’s welfare promise makes it impossible to ignore them is: 
 MSP is the focal point where three irreconcilable strands of political economy show up. The Minimum Support Price (MSP) of 14 kharif crops announced by the NDA government on Wednesday stuck to the suggestions made by its expert body, Commission for Agricultural Costs & Prices (CACP).Paddy (common variety) MSP was increased by 5.4% over the previous year to Rs 2300/ quintal. It’s 150% of the average all-India cost for a quintal. Cost here includes actual expenses towards inputs and imputed family labour.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIt’s this manner of cost calculation that was the source of friction between the Modi 2.0 government and some sections of farmers. These farmers want the government to use a benchmark which adds rental value of owned land and interest on fixed capital to the way in which costs are calculated to fix MSP. Modi 2.0 found the demand unreasonable and didn’t budge. Neither have farmers backed down.MSP is the focal point where three irreconcilable strands of political economy show up. They are the primary welfare promise of Modi 3.0, the indispensability of Punjab’s farmers to fulfilling it and the need to transition away from the current pattern of MSP-based procurement if agricultural reforms have to take root.
 
The news published on the date June 20, 2024 12:42 PM IST with headline  India seeks exemption for sovereign funds from RBI's alternate investment fund rules is: 
 India seeks exemption for sovereign funds from RBI's alternate investment fund rules The Indian government has asked the central bank to exempt sovereign funds from a recent set of tightened rules concerning investments in alternate investment funds (AIFs), according to two government sources and a fund official.In December, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) asked banks and non-banking financial companies to raise provisions for AIF investments - under which sovereign funds also fall - if they were also lenders to the projects in which the AIFs were investing.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe rules, tightened to prevent evergreening of loans, were partially eased later in March.The government has written to the RBI seeking special dispensation for sovereign-backed funds - including a fund called Special Window for Affordable and Mid-Income Housing (SWAMIH) set up to rescue stressed real estate projects, citing its "socio-economic purpose", the two government sources said.A fund official confirmed the government's communication with the central bank but did not provide more details. They requested anonymity as they are not authorised to talk to the media.
 
The news published on the date June 20, 2024 12:56 PM IST with headline  Signals from MSP hikes for the FY25 Kharif season is: 
 A comforting sign for the markets from the MSP is that the government is not going out on a populist warpath. Whether agricultural income can lend a helping hand to rural consumption growth in FY25 is a question engaging observers of the rural economy and investors alike. Minimum support price hikes have been announced by the government on June 19 and they are one factor that affects farm income. Moreover, after the BJP won a lower number of seats than expected, a populist tilt to decision-making has been a fear for markets, even if it could be goo
 
The news published on the date June 20, 2024 12:07 PM IST with headline  Fuel inclusion under GST not on agenda for June 22 Council meet: Official is: 
 Petroleum products are currently subject to central excise duty and state-level value-added tax (VAT). The GST Council meeting on June 22 is unlikely to discuss the inclusion of petroleum products under the Goods and Services Tax (GST), a government official said. Oil Minister Hardeep Singh Puri recently said that the government will work towards bringing petrol, diesel and aviation turbine fuel (ATF) under GST, sparking speculations that the issue will be discussed in the upcoming Council meeting.“Inclusion of fuel under GST is not on the Council’s agenda. All the states have to agree for the inclusion. It’s an uphill task. At the moment there is no proposal that was discussed by the GST’s fitment committee,” the official told Moneycontrol.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThere have been repeated calls to bring fuel under GST’s scope to create uniform pricing of key energy commodities, but several states have opposed the move earlier, citing the potential risk of losing the hefty revenue they derive from the fuel tax. It is expected that if petrol is included in the ambit of GST, where the highest tax slab is 28 percent, there may be considerable reduction in prices.Petroleum products are currently subject to central excise duty and state-level value-added tax (VAT). This dual taxation not only swells the retail price of diesel and petrol but also makes them vary across states.India has market-linked prices of petrol and diesel, allowing fuel retailers to fix prices in line with global crude cost, exchange rate, tax structure, inland freight and other related elements. Petrol & Diesel Rates Today Sunday, 28th July, 2024Petrol Rate in Mumbai Today Current Petrol Price Per Litre ₹104 View more Sunday, 28th July, 2024Diesel Rate in Mumbai Today Current Petrol Price Per Litre ₹92 View more Show
 
The news published on the date June 20, 2024 12:04 PM IST with headline  Import curbs on certain types of studded gold jewellery not applicable for SEZ units: DGFT is: 
 Import curbs on certain types of studded gold jewellery not applicable for SEZ units: DGFT The government has clarified that its decision to impose import curbs on certain types of studded gold jewellery is not applicable for units in the special economic zones (SEZs).On June 11, the directorate general of foreign trade (DGFT) through a notification imposed the restrictions to discourage inbound shipments of these items from countries like Indonesia and Tanzania.Story continues below Advertisement"It is clarified that imports made by SEZ units (other than free trade warehousing zones)...are outside the purview of this notification," the directorate general of foreign trade (DGFT) has said in a policy circular.The DGFT has said that it has received representations from SEZ units highlighting the issues faced by them due to this notification.Goods under restricted category need a licence/permission from the government.SEZs are key export hubs which contributed over one-third of the country's total outbound shipments in the last fiscal. These are enclosures that are treated as foreign territories for trade and customs duties, with restrictions on duty-free sales outside these zones in the domestic market.Exports from these zones rose by over 4 per cent to USD 163.69 billion in 2023-24.As many as 423 such zones have been approved by the government, out of which 280 are operational as of March 31 this year. As many as 5,711 units are approved in these zones till December 31, 2023
 
The news published on the date June 20, 2024 09:10 AM IST with headline  Government survey of unincorporated enterprises provides further proof of rural distress is: 
 A govt survey reveals crucial details about the state of work in the informal economy. Highlights:A govt survey reveals crucial details about the state of work in the informal economyThe percentage of informal establishments that hired workers was a low 14.94 percent in the period October 2022 to September 2023The percentage of informal workers to hired workers has increased, which does not support the view that formalisation of business in India has increasedReal rural wages declined while urban wages ros
 
The news published on the date June 20, 2024 08:51 AM IST with headline  RBI researchers predict higher growth, lower inflation than forecast by MPC for 2024-25 is: 
 While the State of the Economy report is upbeat on the domestic economy, it finds plenty of warning signs about the US economy. Highlights:The State of the Economy report in the June RBI Bulletin, RBI researchers write that they expect growth to be much stronger What’s intriguing, though, is that the RBI researchers put consumer price inflation at 4.5 percent in Q2 in their baseline projectionsWhile the State of the Economy report is upbeat on the domestic economy, it finds plenty of warning signs about the US econom
 
The news published on the date June 20, 2024 07:58 AM IST with headline  India economic inequality to persist despite roaring GDP growth: Poll is: 
 India economic inequality to persist despite roaring GDP growth: Poll The Indian economy is likely to remain the fastest-growing major one in coming years, but a majority of independent economists and policy experts polled by Reuters are not confident it will make any difference in narrowing stark economic inequality.Despite over 8% economic growth last fiscal year and a roaring stock market in Mumbai that is easily one of the world's most expensive, New Delhi still distributes free food grains to more than 800 million of its 1.4 billion people.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPrime Minister Narendra Modi, sworn in for a third term with the support of regional parties after a shock election where his Bharatiya Janata Party lost its sizeable majority in parliament, has retained most ministers from his second one.Yet rising economic inequality - around its highest in decades - and high youth unemployment were widely reported as reasons for the electoral drubbing after securing sweeping victories in 2014 and 2019 on development and economic reform platforms.A nearly 85% majority of development economists and policy experts, 43 out of 51, in a May 15-June 18 Reuters poll, said they were not confident economic inequality would significantly reduce over the next five years, including 21 who said they had no confidence at all.
 
The news published on the date June 20, 2024 07:55 AM IST with headline  Job creation is India's top economic challenge, policy experts say: Poll is: 
 Job creation is India's top economic challenge, policy experts say: Poll Tackling India's chronic joblessness will be the biggest challenge for the government over the next five years, even as the country remains the world's fastest-growing major economy, according to policy experts polled by Reuters.Asia's third-largest economy grew more than 8% last fiscal year, driven by government capital expenditure that so far has failed to spark sufficient business spending to create enough work, particularly for young people in a country of 1.4 billion.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPrime Minister Narendra Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party lost the parliamentary majority it has held for the past decade in national elections that ended in early June over widening inequality, relentless inflation pressure - particularly on food - and a lack of well-paying jobs.An overwhelming 91% majority of development economists and policy experts, 49 of 54, said unemployment would be the biggest economic challenge for the government's term in a survey taken May 15-June 18."In India, we have a very peculiar problem - supposedly very high aggregate growth rates and no increase in employment. Modi came to power offering aspirational youth jobs and a better life, but it's gotten significantly worse since then," said Jayati Ghosh, professor at the University of Massachusetts Amherst.
 
The news published on the date June 19, 2024 07:43 PM IST with headline  Northern states tap short-term markets to secure more power but concerns over power outages linger amid scorching summer is: 
 India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted above-normal temperatures in north and central parts of the country. As the relentless heatwave continues to sweep across north India, states in the region are buying from short-term power markets to meet the rising demand and minimize power outages, officials from at least three power distribution companies told Moneycontrol.The peak demand in the northern grid on June 17 caused a partial outage in some parts and triggered concerns over the possibility of tripping the national grid. Most industry players said they are cautious that despite best efforts parts of north India may be staring at power outages.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“In June, we bought an average of 400 lakh units a day from IEX at an average rate of Rs 4.6 per unit. But in critical hours the price reached Rs 10 a unit. While we are trying to supply uninterrupted power, there is a deficit of 130 lakh units which can lead to a load shedding of up to three hours,” a senior power official from Rajasthan said.Social media was abuzz with people from Uttar Pradesh (UP), especially from Ghaziabad and Noida, complaining about long hours of power cuts. According to the National Load Despatch Centre’s latest data, UP met a maximum demand of 28,752 megawatts and faced a shortage of 488 mw.A spokesperson from Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation told Moneycontrol that the state has not declared load shedding and the power cuts are due to “local issues.” The spokesperson said, “At present, electricity is being provided 24 hours a day without any discrimination in the entire state. If there is disruption due to a local fault, there are instructions to repair it in the shortest possible time.”
 
The news published on the date June 19, 2024 06:44 PM IST with headline  Foreigners buy $10 billion of index-bound Indian bonds since JPMorgan inclusion announcement is: 
 Foreigners buy $10 billion of index-bound Indian bonds since JPMorgan inclusion announcement Foreign investors have bought more than $10 billion of Indian government bonds that will be included in a widely-followed JPMorgan debt index on June 28, taking their ownership of such papers to a record high.In the nine months since JPMorgan said India's sovereign debt will be included in its emerging market debt index, foreign investors have bought 841 billion rupees ($10.08 billion) of eligible bonds on a net basis. More chunky inflows are expected at the end of this month.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOverseas buyers now own 1.79 trillion rupees of Indian bonds included in the so-called fully accessible route, which allows unfettered foreign purchases. A majority of these notes will be a part of the JPM index.Foreigners' ownership of these Indian bonds has risen to an all-time high of 4.45% of total from 2.77% before the inclusion announcement.Their share of ownership of all outstanding government bonds remains low at 2.4%, below the peak of 4.6% in 2017.
 
The news published on the date June 19, 2024 04:15 PM IST with headline  Rupee slips 1 paisa to settle at 83.44 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee slips 1 paisa to settle at 83.44 against US dollar The rupee paired its initial gains and settled 1 paisa lower at 83.44 (provisional) against the US dollar on Wednesday in sink with the domestic equity markets that turned choppy at the fag-end of the session.Forex traders said the gaining momentum in the local unit was snapped by a firm American currency and higher level of crude oil prices in the overseas market.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened strong at 83.39 and moved in the range of 83.34 and 83.48 against the greenback during the session. The local unit finally settled at 83.44 (provisional) against the American currency, registering a loss of 1 paisa from previous closing level.On Tuesday, the rupee had settled 12 paise higher at 83.43 against the US dollar.Jateen Trivedi, VP Research Analyst – Commodity and Currency, LKP Securities, said the rupee traded on a volatile note, showing strength at the opening but giving up gains as the dollar index found support near 104.80. "The rupee is anticipated to continue trading in a volatile range between 83.25-83.60." Meanwhile, the dollar index, which gauges the greenback's strength against a basket of six currencies, was trading higher by 0.01 per cent at 104.88.
 
The news published on the date June 19, 2024 04:00 PM IST with headline  Foreign airlines likely to get tax relief on import of services in upcoming GST Council meeting: Official is: 
 The GST authorities had sent out several notices to airlines The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council in its meeting on June 22 is likely to give tax relief on the import of maintenance, repair and operations (MRO) services for foreign airlines in India from the current 18 percent, a government official said.“When airlines import MRO services from their parent company outside India, under GST, the related party transaction is taxable at 18 percent and its compliance is very stringent for foreign companies. For ease of doing business, the fitment committee has suggested giving tax relief, which will be discussed by the GST Council in the June 22 meeting,” the official told Moneycontrol.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe issue has been examined in detail by the GST’s fitment committee.As per GST laws, related party transaction refers to the transfer of goods or services between entities under common ownership or management.The changes
 
The news published on the date June 19, 2024 03:08 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Central bank buying keeps gold shining is: 
 Central banks are expected to continue buying gold over the next five years. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAfter reaching a high of $2,427 per ounce in mid-May, gold prices plummeted sharply in a single day, marking the steepest decline in over 3.5 years. The drop was triggered by news that the Chinese central bank was pausing its gold purchases.Central bank purchases play a significant role in the gold market, with China being a major player. Over the past two years, record purchases by central banks have driven gold prices from a low of $1,631 per ounce in October 2022 to the peak seen in May.In 2022 and 2023, central banks bought record quantities of gold as they sought to add the metal to their reserves, replacing the US dollar. Nearly half of all gold consumed during these two years was purchased by central banks, with China buying 225 metric tonnes, or approximately 20 percent of all central bank purchases in 2023.
 
The news published on the date June 19, 2024 02:32 PM IST with headline  India needs a new poverty line estimate, says EAC-PM chairman Bibek Debroy is: 
 Bibek Debroy, the chairman of Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister India needs a new estimate of poverty going forward, given that the estimate given by the Tendulkar committee is over a decade old, Bibek Debroy, chairman, Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister said on June 19.“We still do not have an official poverty going beyond Tendulkar and the multidimensional poverty index is not quite a poverty line. Should we now have a new poverty line, to which this (Household Consumption Expenditure Survey (HCES)) data can be applied,” Debroy said at the data user conference organised by the ministry of statistics and programme implementation in Delhi.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe current poverty line is based on the recommendations of an expert group headed by Suresh Tendulkar.MC Exclusive: Govt considers releasing monthly unemployment data; base year revision by year-end, say sourcesThe government also uses a multidimensional poverty index (MDPI), which calculates poverty based on 22 indicators besides income.
 
The news published on the date June 19, 2024 04:49 PM IST with headline  MC Exclusive: Govt considers releasing monthly unemployment data; GDP, CPI base year revision call by year-end, say sources is: 
 India’s employment data has been a point of contention for the government and economists. Private agencies like CMIE have become a ready- reference point for unemployment data. India is planning on releasing unemployment data with more frequency and contemplating a decision on revision of base year of inflation and gross domestic product (GDP) by year end, sources informed Moneycontrol.The ministry of statistics and programme implementation (MoSPI) is considering increasing the frequency of quarterly urban unemployment surveys to monthly, while it is also contemplating quarterly release of rural employment data, they said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“We are exploring these alternatives to find out if we can increase frequency,” a person aware of the development said.The ministry has also been considering revising the consumer inflation base to 2024, while it is undecided yet on GDP revision.Also read: India needs a new poverty line estimate, says EAC-PM chairman Bibek Debroy
 
The news published on the date June 19, 2024 03:45 PM IST with headline  Council unlikely to review 28% GST on online gaming at June 22 meeting is: 
 GST from online gaming has gone up quite substantially since October 1, 2023 to Rs 1,100 crore per month. The online gaming sector, which pays 28 percent as goods and services tax (GST) on the full face value involved, will have to wait longer for relief. A much-anticipated review of the levy is unlikely to be discussed at the upcoming GST Council meeting on June 22, according to people close to the matter. The review, initially scheduled to take place after six months from October 1, 2023, was expected to address critical issues surrounding taxation of the burgeoning online gaming industry.The online gaming industry has been seeking 28 per cent GST on gross gaming revenue (GGR) instead of full face value. Gross gaming revenue (GGR) is the difference between the amount wagered minus the amount won. Full face value is the value of the bet or contest entry amount.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“The council will not address the comprehensive review of online gaming at the upcoming meeting. A review is not needed. There is no need seen at the moment for the review as industry has adjusted well to the higher tax implemented from October 1, 2023. Thus, the review is not part of the agenda in the upcoming council meeting on June 22,” a government official told Moneycontrol.Since last October, a uniform 28 percent GST has prevailed on the full value of bets placed in online games, regardless of whether it involved games of skill or of chance. Industry stakeholders had been hopeful that the planned review may offer potential changes in the GST tailored to the unique nature of online gaming.The GST Council has already clarified that the 28 percent levy will not apply on re-bets made without withdrawal of the amount, thus resolving a hig issue that the online gaming industry faced, the official said.
 
The news published on the date June 19, 2024 12:33 PM IST with headline  Chinese copper glut grows in sign of sluggish economy is: 
 Copper inventories usually build up in the first few months of the year. Harry Dempsey in London and Wenjie Ding in BeijingThe biggest glut of copper in four years has built up in Chinese warehouses, after a price spike and tepid consumer demand prompted manufacturers in Asia’s largest economy to pull back on buying the world’s most important industrial metal.Stocks of the metal in Shanghai Futures Exchange warehouses have grown to their highest level since 2020 at about 330,000 tonnes this month, according to Bloomberg data. Before then, the las
 
The news published on the date June 19, 2024 11:48 AM IST with headline  Most of top-level executives have positive perception of GST: Deloitte survey is: 
 Most of top-level executives have positive perception of GST: Deloitte survey An increasing number of C-suite executives have a positive perception of GST with many highlighting further reforms like rationalising tax rates and effective dispute resolution process as focus areas to usher in GST 2.0, a Deloitte survey said on Wednesday.The Deloitte GST@7 survey, engaging C-suite and C-1 level executives across diverse industries through online platforms, highlights areas which have resulted in growing confidence in GST, specifically on the positive role of GST automation/ technology and consultative environment, in policy making.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdReflecting growing confidence in GST, the survey found that about 84 per cent of respondents reported a positive perception of GST in 2024, up from 72 per cent in 2023 and 59 per cent in 2022.Automation of tax compliance, including e-invoicing, continues to be voted as a top performance area. Also, enhanced and continued stakeholder consultation, leading to the issuance of clarificatory circulars/instructions was considered as a positive move in policy making.The survey highlights the areas where more reforms are required; these include rationalising tax rates, offering an effective dispute resolution process, removing credit restrictions, adopting faceless assessments, liberalising export rules and implementing a compliance rating system.
 
The news published on the date June 19, 2024 10:48 AM IST with headline  Narrowing the gender gap can spur economic growth higher is: 
 Why is it highly important to reduce the negative gender gap in order to take forward economic development? (Representative image) India emerges among the lowest global economies on the gender gap index compiled by the World Economic Forum -- at 129 among 146. At right at the bottom comes war torn Sudan, whereas countries like Afghanistan and Russia are not even considered as they don’t make available the necessary data. Among the south Asia countries, Bangladesh (99), Nepal, Sri Lanka and Bhutan are ahead of India, with only Pakistan (145) behind. Perhaps the most tellin
 
The news published on the date June 19, 2024 06:22 PM IST with headline  GST Council may quash retro tax demands on online gaming companies is: 
 The GST Council is set to deliberate on the recommendation at its upcoming meeting on June 22. In a potential relief to the online gaming sector, the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council is likely to consider an amendment to the Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) Act, 2017, that would quash retrospective tax demands. This proposal, suggested by the law committee, aims to address tax notices issued where lower taxes were paid due to interpretation issues or lack of clarity in the law.According to an Economic Times report, the law committee has recommended the introduction of a new Section 11A to the CGST Act. This section would empower the government to refrain from recovering GST that was not levied or was under-levied due to prevalent general practices.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe GST Council is set to deliberate on this recommendation at its upcoming meeting on June 22. If approved, this amendment would enable authorities to quash tax demands raised retrospectively, offering significant relief to the online gaming industry.However, the amendment does not address the issue of overpaid taxes. Companies that have paid excess GST due to these practices will not be eligible for refunds.In the financial year 2023-24, the Directorate General of Goods and Services Tax Intelligence (DGGI) detected 6,323 cases of tax evasion amounting to Rs 1.98 lakh crore. Of these, the online gaming sector had the highest number of tax evasion notices, totaling over Rs 1 lakh crore.
 
The news published on the date June 19, 2024 09:13 AM IST with headline  Where GST legislation needs a change to bring it in sync with business realities is: 
 GST has witnessed certain regressive patterns. By Arjun Raghavendra"The life of the law has not been logic; it has been experience."Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad- Oliver Wendell Holmes.It cannot be stressed enough that practical experiences and societal changes necessarily shape any law. GST is no exception. A revenue oriented theoretical approach relying solely on abstract principles cannot sustain any meaningful economic growth. Adaptability is the vital life force of any statute. Like our constitution, we need tax laws that are reflective of a living and breathing society that is transforming and evolving, the amendments being a testimony to the same.Taxation in an economy has three important facets – tax policy, tax administration, and tax litigation. The ideal objective of any tax policy design is that the administration of the same results in optimum revenue collection without a burdensome compliance cost for the taxpayers. This, by default, minimizes any subsequent litigation.
 
The news published on the date June 19, 2024 08:52 AM IST with headline  India-EU FTA talks — How to resolve the carbon conflict is: 
 India does not rule out retaliatory action to counter Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism. (Representative image) HighlightsThe eighth round of India-EU FTA talks from June 24Both sides realise the importance of bolstering trade tiesEU’s proposed CBAM is a major irritant in deliberationsIndia does not rule out retaliatory action to counter CBAMConfrontation may not be the ideal strategy to oppose a carbon levyNew Delhi should devise a mechanism to safeguard its interests and enhance bilateral trad
 
The news published on the date June 19, 2024 08:36 AM IST with headline  Decoding Economics: Where will the jobs come from? is: 
 Where will the better, more productive jobs come from? Perhaps the most important issue for both politics and economics in India today is the lack of jobs for the masses. With millions joining the labour force every year, finding jobs for them must be the top priority. And this is true, not just for India, but for most of the developing economies. The problem is that the policies that worked well in the past are unlikely to be as effective now. What then is the wa
 
The news published on the date June 18, 2024 08:42 PM IST with headline  Retail sales rise a meager 0.1% in May from April as still high inflation curbs spending is: 
 Retail sales rise a meager 0.1% in May from April as still high inflation curbs spending Consumers barely increased spending in May from April as still high inflation and high interest rates curbed spending.Retail sales rose 0.1% in May, below the pace that economists projected, according to the Commerce Department. And April sales were revised downward, a 0.2% decline, from unchanged. Sales rose 0.6% in March and 0.9% in February. That comes after sales fell 1.1% in January, dragged down in part by inclement weather.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdExcluding gas prices and auto sales, retail sales rose the same amount. Excluding sales from gasoline, whose prices have been falling, sales were up 0.3%.The retail sales data offers only a partial look at consumer spending because it excludes things like travel and lodging. However at restaurants, the lone service category tracked in the monthly retail sales report, sales fell 0.4% in May.Sales at clothing and accessory stores rose 0.9%, while electronics and appliance stores posted a 0.4% gain. Online sales rose 0.8%. But business at building material and garden supplies fell 0.8%. And sales at gas stations were down 2.2%.
 
The news published on the date June 18, 2024 08:17 PM IST with headline  India will lose fewer millionaires in 2024 compared to the previous year: Wealth report is: 
 Around 4,300 millionaires are likely to exit the country in 2024 compared with 5,100 in the previous year. India will lose fewer millionaires to migration in 2024 compared with the previous two years, according to The Henley Private Wealth Migration Report 2024 released on June 18 by Henley and Partners in association with wealth intelligence firm New World Wealth.Around 4,300 millionaires are likely to exit the country in 2024 compared with 5,100 in the previous year. India is likely to be third after China and the United Kingdom in terms of migrations from the country.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“India is witnessing a steady net outflow of millionaires but here the story is more positive. Opportunities for overseas investments are opening up for many wealthy Indians, especially in Australia and the US,” the report said.On the other hand, UAE is likely to be the largest beneficiary gaining 6,800 millionaires in 2024, followed by the US and Singapore, it said.
 
The news published on the date June 18, 2024 05:04 PM IST with headline  India’s fast-growing economy has a problem is: 
 It’s impossible to make sense of India’s employment situation by only looking at the fifth of the labour force that holds regular jobs. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi likes to hold back bad news from people until it doesn’t matter anymore to his political prospects.In 2019, his administration was accused of hiding a labour survey that, when it was finally released after his re-election, showed unemployment at a 45-year high. This year’s election, which saw him return with a diminished majority, has coincided with a long-awaited report on the plight of people who have work but are struggling to get by.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIt’s impossible to make sense of India’s employment situation — or consumer demand — by only looking at the fifth of the labour force that holds regular jobs. The rest are either self-employed or work when they can find it.About 110 million toil at 65 million tiny nonfarm jobs scattered across the country. Most of the labour comes from family members. But establishments that do hire outside staff paid employees less than 125,000 rupees ($1,500) a year, on average, according to an official survey conducted in the 12 months through September 2023. This is 1% less than what workers were making between April 2021 and March 2022, a period marked by a deadly second wave of Covid-19, followed by a gradual reopening of the economy.The annual scorecard on unincorporated enterprises, released for the first time Friday, talks of a “robust” near-8% growth in the number of workers. But what is the quality of this employment? The data shows that of the 30 million employed by these small, non-agricultural firms for a wage, 27 million are engaged informally, without any social security. That’s an increase of 6 million since the pandemic in the number of people earning as little as $1,100 a year in rural areas, and a third more than that in urban centers.
 
The news published on the date June 28, 2024 05:45 PM IST with headline  Israel-Hamas war: Half of armed group's battalions in Rafah defeated, full takeover in weeks, says IDF
 
The news published on the date June 18, 2024 04:26 PM IST with headline  Housing Affordability: Rishi Sunak and Joe Biden are making the same mistake is: 
 Housing will not in general become more affordable, although anyone who receives disproportionate subsidies will gain. British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak and US President Joseph Biden are both promoting the same kind of mistake: giving people money when they should instead be working harder to expand supply. In both cases, the mistake is being made in the housing market, a longstanding venue for counterproductive policy ideas.Last week’s Conservative Party manifesto does have one good idea for housing, namely a pledge to build 1.6 million additional units over the next five years. That would lower rents and home prices, and enable British businesses to expand with greater ease, since potential employees could more easily cope with high housing costs. At the same time, it’s worth remembering that the party made a comparable pledge in 2019 and failed to deliver.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdUnfortunately, the proposals do not stop there, and it is more likely — on the off chance the Tories retain power — that they would succeed with their next idea: one billion pounds to first-time home buyers for home purchases of less than £400,000, with the intent of enabling them to buy the homes with deposits of only 5 percent, a low sum for the British market. This is reminiscent of the “Help to Buy” program from earlier in Sunak’s term.This policy violates the basic laws of economics. If you give people cash or credit subsidies to buy homes, the demand for housing will go up, and so will the price. Housing will not in general become more affordable, although anyone who receives disproportionate subsidies will gain. Society as a whole will not.Housing policy often faces a tension between two constituencies: people who are trying to buy a home and those who already own one. The way to help the first is to make housing more affordable by expanding supply. The way to help the second, who are often older voters, is to make housing more valuable. If you try to satisfy both groups, you will end up with failure on both fronts.
 
The news published on the date June 18, 2024 04:08 PM IST with headline  Rupee jumps 13 paise to settle at 83.42 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee jumps 13 paise to settle at 83.42 against US dollar The rupee appreciated 13 paise to settle at 83.42 (provisional) against the US dollar on Tuesday, buoyed by fresh inflow of foreign capital and a firm trend in domestic equity markets, wherein benchmark indices scaled new peaks.Forex traders said reports of dollar selling by public sector banks supported the Indian currency. However, higher crude oil prices capped the gains in the local unit.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 83.52 and hit the intraday high of 83.39 against the greenback during the session.It finally settled at 83.42 (provisional) against the dollar, registering a gain of 13 paise from its previous close.On Friday, the rupee had settled 1 paisa lower at 83.55 against the US dollar.
 
The news published on the date June 18, 2024 03:36 PM IST with headline  Indexing tax slabs to inflation is a fair way to treat tax payers is: 
 tax CII’s president Sanjiv Puri has suggested tax relief for assesses in the lowest personal income tax slab. The underlying logic is that it would partially neutralise the impact of inflation over the recent past. The economic benefit of tax relief is expected to translate into a higher level of consumption.Basic economic logic suggests that assesses whose income is restricted to the lowest slab, Rs 2.5 lakh to Rs 5 lakh, are more likely to channel most of an increase in disposable income to consumption. That’s a sound reason to advocate this measure when the growth in private consumption lags the overall GDP growth.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBut should this be an arbitrary move? Something that is left to the wish of the finance minister of the day?Inflation and IndexationLet’s keep in mind the threshold of taxation under the old regime starts just above Rs 2.5 lakh, and that’s where it has been for a few years. During that phase, retail inflation has effectively reduced the threshold at which assesses have entered tax bracket. This, in turn, would have reduced disposable income at lower and lower income levels.
 
The news published on the date June 18, 2024 04:38 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | AI's boost to the energy value chain  is: 
 As the world builds a large number of data centres to deploy AI technologies, demand for electricity and fresh grid capacity to power these centres will rise. Dear Reader,Investors in India may fret about the unavailability of artificial intelligence (AI) specific companies on local bourses. However, as the world builds and deploys this new transformative technology, opportunities are seen in traditional industries as well. The energy sector is a case in point.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAI is a data-intensive technology, requiring large amounts of data and computing processing capacity to deliver results. As the world builds a large number of data centres to deploy AI technologies, demand for electricity and fresh grid capacity to power these centres will rise.The International Energy Agency (IEA) estimates the power usage of data centres to nearly double by 2026 from 2022 levels. So much so, the incremental power requirement from data centres including AI technologies and cryptocurrencies can potentially reverse the plateauing electricity demand trends in the US and Europe, say analysts at Jefferies.“Electricity demand in data centres is mainly from two processes, with computing accounting for 40 percent of electricity demand of a data centre. Cooling requirements to achieve stable processing efficiency similarly makes up about another 40 percent. The remaining 20 percent comes from other associated IT equipment,” explains IEA.
 
The news published on the date June 18, 2024 01:42 PM IST with headline  SEA seeks end to export ban on de-oiled rice bran as prices slump is: 
 SEA seeks end to export ban on de-oiled rice bran as prices slump Edible oil industry body SEA on Tuesday appealed to the government not to extend the ban on export of de-oiled rice bran beyond July 31, as domestic prices have slumped on increased supply of an alternative animal feed.India typically exports 5-6 lakh tonne of de-oiled rice bran annually, mainly to Vietnam, Thailand and other Asian countries, positioning itself as a reliable supplier in the international market.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHowever, the government prohibited exports of the commodity on July 28 last year, citing high fodder prices, with the ban initially imposed until March 31, 2024, and later extended till July 31.De-oiled rice bran prices are now at lower levels and likely to decline further with increased availability of distillers' dried grains with solubles (DDGS), a byproduct of the ethanol industry used as an animal feed, the Solvent Extractors' Association of India (SEA) said."In view of the sharp fall in prices of de-oiled rice bran, the association has appealed to the government not to extend the prohibition beyond July 31, 2024," SEA said in a statement.
 
The news published on the date June 18, 2024 12:03 PM IST with headline  Fed needs to cut interest rates sooner rather than later is: 
 The terminal rate for the upcoming Fed rate reduction cycle depends on when it starts. The writer is president of Queens’ College, Cambridge, and an adviser to Allianz and Gramercy“It doesn’t matter when the Federal Reserve starts cutting rates. What really matters is where they finish.” That is one view that is being heard around Wall Street.At first glance, this advice serves as a timely caution for the many market participants currently obsessed with whether the Federal Reserve, reassured by the latest inflation data, will begin its rate-cutting cycle in September o
 
The news published on the date June 18, 2024 09:48 AM IST with headline  India’s goods exports are up, but they are only back to 2022 levels is: 
 It may be too early to rely too much on exports as an engine of growth this year. At first glance, India’s merchandise exports for May 2024 show good growth, at 9.07 percent year-over-year. It’s the strongest growth since February, after two lacklustre months. Growth in petroleum products exports was 15.72 percent over a year ago, while non-petroleum product exports also did well, with growth at 7.73 percent, a two-month high. With a recovery in the global economy, trade is expected to improve this year. At the very least, India’s merchandise exports should do bette
 
The news published on the date June 18, 2024 08:59 AM IST with headline  Be a Jack of all trades to thrive in an interconnected market is: 
 Traders need to factor in all variables that tend to impact prices of assets that they invest or trade in. One often hears from friends and family about how they trade and invest only in equities or exclusively in any other asset class for that matter. These focused investor-traders tend to ignore other asset classes. Agreed that this is the age of specialisation where your area of expertise tends to be limited. But does the market think so too? At the end of the day we traders need to factor in all variables that tend to impac
 
The news published on the date June 18, 2024 08:30 AM IST with headline  Chart of the Day: Why India should closely track Bill Gates’ new nuclear plant is: 
 Nuclear reactors do not create air pollution or emit greenhouse gasses during operation. Bill Gates backed TerraPower has broken ground on a new project to build a next generation nuclear power plant. , the project uses less complex technology and is easier to build. Instead of water, the nuclear reactor uses sodium as a coolant. Most of the nuclear power projects under construction in India currently uses pressurised heavy water reactor technology.As TerraPower commercialises more reactors, component costs are projected to come down. If the project achieves commercial success
 
The news published on the date June 18, 2024 08:18 AM IST with headline  Small loans and the big question on consumption is: 
 Microfinance trends must be watched for stress Highlights:Gross loan portfolio of microfinance institutions grew by 27 percent in FY24Loans below Rs 30,000 have shrunk while those with higher ticket size have surgedLarge ticket size loans also demonstrate higher delinquency ratiosShare of rural areas in gross loan portfolio has risen sharply to 61 percent in FY24Rising indebtedness may affect consumption and even rural recover
 
The news published on the date June 17, 2024 11:55 AM IST with headline  If the rates stay higher for longer, then the US will need a Carbon Tax is: 
 What’s not cheap anymore is money itself, with interest rates up as part of the Fed’s effort to control inflation. The longer interest rates stay higher, the stronger the case grows for … a carbon tax.Hear me out. The one great legislative push for carbon pricing, in 2010, came at a time of sky-high unemployment and low interest rates. It fell apart, but US emissions decreased anyway as newly plentiful natural gas started to crowd out more emissions-intensive coal. Over the next decade, the world’s entrepreneurs and engineers — assisted by modest government programs in the US and elsewhere — made considerable progress on bringing down the cost of manufacturing photovoltaic panels and batteries, helping to accelerate global investment in clean energy.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThis mix of technological progress and cheap money laid the conceptual groundwork for the approach of President Joe Biden’s administration: Subsidize innovation and deployment, and let God and the Federal Reserve sort out the rest.And on one level it’s working. Electric vehicle sales are up. There will be more investment in solar power this year than in oil. Batteries for both EVs and grid-attached storage keep getting cheaper.What’s not cheap anymore is money itself, with interest rates up as part of the Fed’s effort to control inflation. Now the central bank says it expectsjust one rate cut this year. But even if it cuts twice, there’s no prospect of rates going all the way back down to their pre-Covid levels, especially with the budget deficit both high and rising.
 
The news published on the date June 15, 2024 10:01 AM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Weekender: All is well is: 
 While k-shaped growth may be a political problem, it clearly isn’t an economic one, given that GDP growth is so high Dear Reader,The new government has been busy sending the message that it is very much like the old government. Most ministers have retained their portfolios, including the finance minister. This "continuity" has been warmly welcomed by the markets, which would like nothing better than a continuation of the old business-friendly policies.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPolitically, though, no change may not be the best policy. As our columnist R Srinivasan wrote, "As the election results showed, there is widespread distress on the economic front, particularly in rural areas and among farmers. The lack of youth employment is becoming a major issue. While macro numbers may be good, small businesses in particular are struggling." That the government is well aware of that is seen from the Cabinet’s first decisions, which allocated funds to farmers and housing for the poor.The question is: if, as government statistics show, GDP growth in 2023-24 was a stunning 8.2 percent, what on earth do people have to be discontented about? But the RBI consumer confidence data show that sentiment among urban consumers too is down in the dumps. The survey found that "while 36.8 percent of the respondents believed their employment situation has improved over the past year, 40.2 percent said they had deteriorated." Is it evidence of the infamous k-shaped recovery? That’s also seen from the spike in household debt, which may have reached a record high in FY24.But according to the RBI surveys, sentiment about the current job situation and income is now more or less the same as or even better that what it was before the pandemic, at least from around December 2016. Recall also that demonetisation happened in November 2016 and the imposition of GST was in 2017. Could it be that the k-shape started from then?
 
The news published on the date June 28, 2024 05:49 PM IST with headline  G7 strikes provisional deal on using Russian assets for $50-bn Ukraine loan
 
The news published on the date June 14, 2024 05:09 PM IST with headline  Govt to launch 10th round of commercial coal auctions next week is: 
 The commercial coal auction was launched in June 2020 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. So far, the coal ministry has auctioned 107 blocks with 256 MT peak rated capacity in 9 rounds. Central government is set to launch the 10th round of commercial coal block auction, the Union coal ministry said in a statement on June 14.The new round of auction, which will be launched by newly-appointed coal minister G Kishan Reddy next week, will see 62 blocks on offer without end user curbs, the statement said.Story continues below AdvertisementThe government allows coal produced from these blocks to be sold by the allocattee in free market.The commercial coal auction was launched in June 2020 by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. So far, the coal ministry has auctioned 107 blocks with 256 MT peak rated capacity in 9 rounds.Out of the total blocks auctioned, 11 have been operationalized and around 17.5 MT coal has been produced from these commercial blocks.The ministry has also developed a coal block portal on the PM Gatishakti National Master Plan to ensure that the bidders have all the required information related to geographical features of the blocks
 
The news published on the date June 14, 2024 05:03 PM IST with headline  Business in the Week Ahead (June 17-21, 2024) is: 
 market Another topsy turvy week at D-Street ended on Friday, Nifty opened to gains but quickly dipped below 23,400. The markets have recovered the losses it incurred after election results but some experts feel it may not be out of the woods yet. The market is expected to remain range bound till about the Budget announcement and as June quarter earnings wind down.V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist, Geojit Financial Services believes the market will remain range boun
 
The news published on the date June 14, 2024 05:02 PM IST with headline  Scorching Summers: People in Uttarakhand Face Water Shortage Issues
 
The news published on the date June 14, 2024 04:43 PM IST with headline  The Reading List: June 14, 2024 is: 
 Here are some articles and social media gems from the world of economy. In a world strapped for time, we thought you may find it useful to have a selection of articles we read this past week. As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. Occasionally, we may stray from these subjects.These links may be from external websites we frequent o
 
The news published on the date June 14, 2024 04:04 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | A plateful of climate change is: 
 Climate change has made it necessary for the US Federal Reserve to closely watch what is called the hurricane season to gauge the economy’s strength. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. In 1991, the average food inflation in India was 17.9 percent and in the two decades that followed, food inflation was in double digits most years. Being a fledgling manufacturing economy, still dominated by farming, India’s fiscal and monetary policies were tied intimately with food prices. Food had more than 60 percent weight in official inflation indices as well. Food also accounted for the lion’s share of household expenses.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMore importantly, food inflation was something very closely associated with emerging markets, especially India. The prices of pulses or vegetables hardly made headlines in developed nations such as the US and European countries, but in India, it toppled governments.Fast forward to today, food isn’t as threatening to the political economy as before. But the challenges that come in the way of maintaining price stability remain and new hurdles have emerged as well. It should not surprise us that monetary policy, which never had much to do with food inflation, continues to be influenced significantly by it. This influence has stayed after adoption of the consumer price index where the weight of food is lower than in the wholesale price index.Ergo, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has not been able to enjoy the fruits of a record low core inflation (which excludes food but stands for everything else that reflects rising affluence) because a handful of pulses and vegetables continue to thwart price stability.
 
The news published on the date June 14, 2024 12:54 PM IST with headline  Wholesale price inflation rises for 3rd straight month to 2.61% in May is: 
 WPI inflation data for May was released on June 14 India's wholesale price index-based inflation rose for the third straight month to 2.61 percent in May on a year-on-year basis as against 1.26 percent a month ago, data from the commerce ministry showed on June 14."Positive rate of inflation in May 2024 is primarily due to an increase in prices of food articles, manufacture of food products, crude petroleum and natural gas, mineral oils, other manufacturing, etc," the Ministry of Commerce and Industry said in a statement.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe month-over-month change in the WPI index for May stood at 0.20 percent as compared to April.The rate of inflation based on the WPI Food Index increased from 5.52 percent in April 2024 to 7.40 percent in May 2024, as per the data.Also Read | RBI may keep rates tight till further clarity on food inflation risk, say economists
 
The news published on the date June 14, 2024 09:22 AM IST with headline  Why the Modi 3.0 Cabinet points to a change in style of management is: 
 The command-and-control system is well entrenched, and all members of Modi's team know their place HighlightsCEOs typically adopt leadership by fear, faced with high targets and limited term at the helmThe CEO’s pressure to perform is transferred to the team, and growth is pursued at all costsModi’s leadership style resembled that of leadership by fear in the first two termsThe Cabinet was changed dramatically in the second term, with Modi retaining the decision-making powerModi 3.0 Cabinet shows that leadership style may have change
 
The news published on the date June 14, 2024 08:57 AM IST with headline  Can the GST Council walk the Centre’s talk on fuel levy? is: 
 With GST revenues showing steady buoyancy in recent times, it is perhaps the opportune moment for the council to address this critical and complicated issue. (Representative image) HighlightsThe government will work to bring fuels under GST, says oil ministerGST on fuels has long been on the agenda of the councilHowever, the Centre and the states are hesitant to take a final callThe primary reason is the fear of revenue loss as all depend heavily on this levyIf India has to morph into a developed nation, GST on fuel needs to be implemented at the earlies
 
The news published on the date June 14, 2024 08:20 AM IST with headline  Chart of the Day: India’s household debt may have reached a record high in FY24 is: 
 India's household debt is on the rise The surge in personal loan disbursals by lenders has shown that Indian households have been borrowing big time in the past two years. Notwithstanding regulatory clampdown by asking lenders to set aside more capital for unsecured personal loans, the growth in these has continued to be elevated. Logically, the indebtedness of Indian households has increased steadily.(image) Indian households' debt rose to record high in FY24The above chart, reproduced for you from Motila
 
The news published on the date June 13, 2024 10:17 PM IST with headline  Need to moderate rate, widen tax base for Viksit Bharat goal by 2047: Experts is: 
 India's tax to GDP ratio suffers from the presence of a thriving informal sector, which still accounts for 30 per cent to 35 per cent of the economy, Kaushik Dutta, Director, Thought Arbitrage Research Institute, said at a seminar organised by Think Change Forum. There is a need for a shift in the taxation mindset from rates to revenue by moderating tax rates and widening base in order to achieve the goal of 'Viksit Bharat' by 2047, experts said.They underscored the need on transition from rates to revenue focused on lowering tax rates, enlarging the tax-paying base and thereby creating the means for financing of India's investment and development needs.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Conventional higher tax rates haven't resulted in significant tax buoyancy. Recognising this fact, governments in India since 1991 onwards have clearly batted for moderate tax rates leading to greater levels of transparency and compliance," EY India senior partner Sudhir Kapadia said.Time has come to bite the bullet for reforms in direct taxes, he said, adding, there could be one simplified rate structure for businesses and for individuals, there could be one simple three-rate structure with low or moderate rates, no surcharges and cesses and no significant deductions.On GST, he said, a lot has been spoken about the rates and clearly it is time to have a far lower number of rates in GST structure. "It is also time to ensure we do not have constraints related to availing of input tax credits. There has been a steady increase in income tax revenues but we need to have continued focus on taxpayer experience with tax administration, and ensure the filing process remains seamless and hassle-free," he added.
 
The news published on the date June 13, 2024 03:52 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | More indications of a soft landing  is: 
 Global recovery is slowly but surely under way. What must equity investors in India do? Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdNotwithstanding a lower inflation reading, the US Federal Open Market Committee's dot plot indicating only one rate cut later this year was rather disappointing. But Fed chair Jay Powell’s opening remarks at the press conference are reassuring. “Our economy has made considerable progress… the labour market has come into better balance with continued strong job gains and a low unemployment rate,” he said. Even better, the resilient economy is also showing early signs of inflation cooling off.In other words, Powell appears to be in control of the situation thus far. Playing the game of patience to tame inflation by keeping rates elevated while the economy continues to be resilient has raised the confidence of a soft landing for the US economy.Indeed, the inflation print on Wednesday showing softening inflation had raised investor hopes of rate cuts. But one reading is not enough to suggest a trend. Commentary for the US economy suggests robust growth, but price pressures remain a problem, what with Fed officials raising inflation forecasts compared to the March projections!
 
The news published on the date June 13, 2024 03:32 PM IST with headline  Will push for GST reforms, single licensing for traders in Modi 3.0: Praveen Khandelwal is: 
 Praveen Khandelwal Bharatiya Janata Party member of Parliament Praveen Khandelwal, who won for the first time from the Chandni Chowk constituency in the national capital, and who is also the secretary general of the Delhi-headquartered Confederation of All India Traders or CAIT, said his agenda will be to represent the voice of traders and focus on issues related to easing compliance norms, refining the goods and services (GST) tax regime and scrapping of old laws.Khandelwal is also hopeful of pushing through measures to boost ease of doing business. “The next five years will be a golden period for trade and small businesses,” Khandelwal said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“Modi 3.0 will give a boost to ease of compliances for businesses with a focus on GST reforms, decriminalisation of old laws, e-commerce policy and push for single licensing," Khandelwal told Moneycontrol. “The focus is on the issue of simplification and rationalisation of GST. There is a need to ease GST compliance for businesses. It will boost voluntary compliance and revenue. The compliance should be easy for small businesses. The endeavour is to project GST as a tool for robust development of trade and economy,” Khandelwal said in the interview.GST collections for April 2024 breached the landmark milestone of Rs 2 lakh crore.“The GST revenue is still less, it needs to increase more. More inclusion of businesses under GST is needed. Many businesses are above the threshold and still not registered under GST. It should be simplified for ease of doing business,” he said.
 
The news published on the date June 13, 2024 01:29 PM IST with headline  GST Council to meet on June 22 is: 
 GST Council to meet on June 22 The GST Council, chaired by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, will meet on June 22."The 53rd meeting of the GST Council will be held on 22nd June, 2024 at New Delhi," the GST Council Secretariat said in a post on X, formerly known as Twitter.Story continues below AdvertisementThe agenda for the meeting is yet to be circulated amongst the Council members.This would be the first Council meeting after Lok Sabha elections.Results of the elections were declared on June 4, and Sitharaman was sworn in as a Cabinet minister in the new Modi Government on June 9.The 52nd meeting of the GST Council, which comprises finance ministers of all states and UTs, was held on October 7, 2023
 
The news published on the date June 13, 2024 12:32 PM IST with headline  Strategic reforms in customs duties, GST, commerce to push India's inclusive growth: GTRI is: 
 Strategic reforms in customs duties, GST, commerce to push India's inclusive growth: GTRI Implementation of key strategic reforms such as simplification of customs duty structure, GST, and not incentivising low value-added electric vehicles would help India ensure its sustainable development and inclusive growth, GTRI said on Thursday.Economic think tank Global Trade Research Initiative (GTRI) also said that India is standing on the cusp of a transformative era and there is an urgent need for comprehensive economic reforms.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"From simplifying the convoluted customs duty structure to pioneering regulatory sandboxes for cryptocurrencies, and from boosting the MSME sector through GST (Goods and Services Tax) reforms to fortifying our energy security, this agenda lays the foundation for a robust, resilient, and globally competitive India," it said.It said that the current basic customs duty structure, which affects USD 680 billion worth of imports, has not been reviewed in 20 years, leading to over 27 different duty rates and over 100 specific or mixed duty slabs.Currently, 85 per cent of customs duty revenue comes from less than 10 per cent of tariff lines (or product categories), while 60 per cent of tariff lines contribute less than 3 per cent of revenue.
 
The news published on the date June 13, 2024 11:59 AM IST with headline  Hey Siri, is Apple’s AI strategy enough to sustain this rally? is: 
 Only Apple’s newest devices, such as the iPhone 15 Pro and the 15 Pro Max, will be able to use the new AI features Here’s a question for your friendly digital assistant: can artificial intelligence revive iPhone sales?For investors, the answer is yes. Apple shares hit a new high on Wednesday, two days after the company unveiled its long-awaited AI strategy. The stock’s 10 per cent gain since Monday’s close has added more than $300bn to the company’s market capitalisation. It briefly overtook Microsoft to become the world’s most valuable company again during Wednesday’s trading session.The market may be getting ahea
 
The news published on the date June 13, 2024 11:35 AM IST with headline  Disinflation is happening in all the right places is: 
 The breadth of the ongoing inflation is getting much narrower. There’s still a lot of noise in the latest US inflation report, but the things that matter are moving in the right direction.The core consumer price index — which excludes volatile food and energy prices — rose just 0.2% in May from the previous month, the softest month-on-month inflation since August 2021 and less than the 0.3% projected by the median economist in a Bloomberg survey (unrounded, the May number came to 0.1631%). The so-called supercore services index — which excludes the lagged shelter category — saw prices fall slightly from the previous month, the first time that’s occurred in nearly three years.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIt was just one month in a notoriously volatile data set, of course, but it adds to evidence from April that the hot first quarter was an aberration in a longer disinflation process. Core CPI rose 3.4% from a year earlier, a major improvement for an index that peaked at 6.6% in 2022 — but still a long ways from the Federal Reserve’s 2% target (which is technically based on another measure of inflation, PCE).Under the hood, there were plenty of encouraging signals for Fed policymakers to chew on, and Chair Jerome Powell seemed to receive the news with his signature cautious optimism at the press conference that followed Wednesday’s central bank meeting. Predictably, he and his colleagues kept rates steady at 5.25%-5.5%, yet he characterized the data as “a better inflation report than almost anybody expected.”First, the breadth of the ongoing inflation is getting much narrower. Across the CPI, the weighted share of components inflating by more than 4% annualized fell to 53%, down from 59% a month earlier. Within the core index, the only two broad categories that experienced month-on-month inflation that’s at least a standard deviation above their 2017-2019 “normal” were medical care commodities and the famously problematic shelter gauge (more on that later).
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2024 07:30 PM IST with headline  Gold rush to endure through 2024 though $3,000 mark may prove elusive is: 
 Gold rush to endure through 2024 though $3,000 mark may prove elusive Gold's lightning rally to successive record highs shows every sign of continuing in the second half of 2024 as the fundamental case for bullion remains firmly in place, though $3,000 per ounce looks just out of reach, traders and industry experts said.Investors have flocked in droves towards the precious metal, driven by expectations for monetary easing, geopolitical tension in Europe and the Middle East and – most notably – central bank purchases led by China.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSpot gold is trading around $2,300 per ounce after hitting a record $2,449.89 on May 20, gaining more than 11% so far this year."There are lots of reasons driving gold right now…, but one of the major factors is China," Ruth Crowell, CEO of the London Bullion Market Association, told Reuters on the sidelines of the Asia Pacific Precious Metals conference in Singapore."Usually China and Japan have been budget shoppers, but given the state of the economy, real estate challenges and equity markets, gold is a safe choice… I think gold is going to be of interest for some time."
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2024 08:00 PM IST with headline  Modi 3.0: Law minister Arjun Meghwal hits the ground running with national litigation policy is: 
 National Litigation Policy sees the light of the day after 14 years Arjun Meghwal, who on June 11 assumed charge as the Minister of State (Independent Charge) at the law ministry, signed the national litigation policy as his first order and forwarded it to the Union Cabinet for further deliberation. The policy has been in the making for over 14 years now.The policy will essentially lay down conditions for filing litigations by the central government, under which a ministry or a department will not be allowed to pursue cases if they do not fall within certain conditions. This will not burden the judiciary and give them time to clear cases quickly.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFor instance, the finance ministry has a litigation policy which does not allow it to appeal in income tax cases before the Supreme Court if the amount disputed is less than Rs 2 crore. The national litigation policy will lay down such conditions for all other litigation-heavy ministries such as the Ministry of Railways and the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways.The central government is the largest litigant in India, with its ministries filing thousands of cases in courts every year.This resulted in an increase in the pendency of cases leading to the judiciary finding it difficult to grapple with the sheer volume of cases.
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2024 06:26 PM IST with headline  US inflation eases to 3.3% in May, defying expectations for slight rise is: 
 US inflation US consumer prices were unexpectedly unchanged in May amid cheaper gasoline, but inflation likely remains too high for the Federal Reserve to start cutting interest rates before September against the backdrop of a persistently strong labor market.The unchanged reading in the consumer price index reported by the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics on Wednesday followed a 0.3% increase in April.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe CPI has been trending lower since posting solid readings in February and March. Price pressures could continue moderating as major retailers, including Target, TGT.N slash prices on goods ranging from food to diapers as they seek to lure inflation-weary consumers.In the 12 months through May, the CPI advanced 3.3% after increasing 3.4% in April. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast the CPI edging up 0.1% and gaining 3.4% year-on-year.Though the annual increase in consumer prices has slowed from a peak of 9.1% in June 2022, inflation continues to run above the U.S. central bank's 2% target.
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2024 07:23 PM IST with headline  India’s industrial output growth slows to 5% in April is: 
 The IIP growth rate in April 2023 was 4.6 percent. India's industrial output growth slowed to 5 percent in April from 5.4 percent in March, data released by the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation on June 12 showed.The IIP growth rate in April 2023 was 4.6 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementThe growth rates of the three sectors mining, manufacturing and electricity for the month of April 2024 over April 2023 are 6.7 percent, 3.9 percent and 10.2 percent respectively. Within the manufacturing sector, the growth rate of the top three positive contributors to the growth of IIP for the month of April 2024 are – basic metals at 8.1 percent, coke and refined petroleum products at 4.9 percent and motor vehicles at 11.4 percent, as per the statement from the statistic's ministry.Based on use-based classification, the top three positive contributors to the growth of IIP for the month of April 2024 are primary goods, infrastructure or construction goods and consumer durables. The growth rates of IIP in April 2024 over April 2023 are 7.0 percent in Primary goods, 3.1 percent in capital goods, 3.2 percent in intermediate goods, 8.0 percent in infrastructure or construction goods and 9.8 percent in consumer durables. The consumer non-durables witnessed a negative growth rate of 2.4 percent in April 2024 over April 2023
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2024 04:56 PM IST with headline  Oracle gains as cloud infrastructure business gets AI boost is: 
 Oracle gains as cloud infrastructure business gets AI boost Oracle shares jumped nearly 9% on Wednesday as investors cheered a boom in demand for the company's relatively low-cost cloud infrastructure services from artificial intelligence applications.If the gains hold, the company will add more than $28 billion to its market valuation of $340 billion as of Tuesday market close. The shares have so far this year gained 18%.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOracle has been ramping up its cloud infrastructure unit, which is expected to drive growth by renting out cloud computing and storage to companies, but will face competition from Alphabet's Google, Microsoft and Amazon.com.Oracle's cloud infrastructure, pitched as a less-expensive option to its rivals, has attracted business from venture capital-funded generative AI startups, including Elon Musk's xAI.Oracle said on Tuesday it had tied-up with ChatGPT-maker OpenAI and Google Cloud to extend its own cloud infrastructure to customers.
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2024 04:38 PM IST with headline  Rupee rises 3 paise to close at 83.56 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee rises 3 paise to close at 83.56 against US dollar Rupee appreciated 3 paise to close at 83.56 (provisional) against the US dollar on Wednesday, on positive domestic market, wherein benchmark sensitive index Nifty touched a fresh all-time high.Forex traders said rupee is trading in a narrow range as all eyes are on the US May CPI print and the US Federal Reserve's rate decision on the global front and India's Consumer Price Index (CPI) on the domestic front.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMoreover, the strength of the American currency in the overseas market and elevated crude oil prices weighed on the local unit and restricted the upmove.At the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 83.56. During the trading session, the rupee touched an intraday high of 83.51 and a low of 83.56. It finally settled for the day at 83.56 (provisional) against the greenback, registering an increase of 3 paise from its previous closing level.On Tuesday, the rupee settled for the day lower by 9 paise at 83.59 against the US dollar.
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2024 01:47 PM IST with headline  Hong Kong grows wealth; Singapore preserves it, stop comparing is: 
 Hong Kong and Singapore sit in very different corners of the financial system. Business travelers have been visiting Hong Kong in recent weeks, attending big finance conferences and mulling whether to wade back into China. Chinese and Hong Kong stocks are up by some $2 trillion in market value since the January lows.Exchanging investment ideas aside, visitors are keen to offer their views on the future of Hong Kong, whose reputation has been dented since the government’s crackdown on the pro-democracy movement in 2019. Views are diverse. Last week, Stephen Roach, Morgan Stanley’s former Asia chair, defended an article he had written that claimed “Hong Kong is over.” Perhaps not coincidentally, emerging markets investing guru Mark Mobius posted a blog on the same day saying the opposite, and that it was never a good idea to write off the potential of any city.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIt’s a lively debate. But almost invariably, Singapore is mentioned alongside Hong Kong in these discussions, as if the rise of one spells the demise of the other.In my view, this comparison isn’t fair. Hong Kong and Singapore sit in very different corners of the financial system. One is an established trading hub that helps companies raise capital, while the other is more suited for private wealth management.China looms large over both financial centers, whose fortunes move like ocean waves as the mainland goes through business cycles. After the global financial crisis, Hong Kong was the big winner. Blue-chip Chinese companies raced to go public on its bourse and issued billion-dollar corporate bonds. For years, earning investment banking fees was effortless.
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2024 01:12 PM IST with headline  India's April-May steel imports hit five-year high on buoyant domestic demand is: 
 India's April-May steel imports hit five-year high on buoyant domestic demand India's finished steel imports touched a five-year high in the first two months of the fiscal year that began in April, with the country continuing to be a net importer, according to provisional government data seen by Reuters.Steel demand has been buoyant in India, the world's second-biggest crude steel producer, as the country remained a bright spot globally with robust demand from its construction and automotive sectors.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndia imported 1.1 million metric tons of finished steel between April and May, up 19.8% from a year earlier, the data showed.India's steel mills, alarmed by a sharp rise in imports, have repeatedly called for government interventions and safeguard measures. The federal Ministry of Steel has resisted such calls, citing strong local demand.China was a top exporter of steel to India in recent months, alongside South Korea. Major Indian steel producers such as Tata Steel have flagged Chinese imports as a "growing concern."
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2024 01:11 PM IST with headline  Martin Wolf: Tariffs are bad policy, but good politics is: 
 Tariffs are higher taxes. Worse, they are inefficient, regressive and nigh on certain to cause retaliation We are moving into a protectionist world, led by the US, as in the early 1930s. Donald Trump is of course, a committed protectionist — a true successor of Senator Smoot and Representative Hawley, who instigated the infamous Smoot-Hawley tariff in 1930. But, except by Trump’s standards, Joe Biden is also no slouch when it comes to protection, most recently with his tariffs on $18bn of Chinese exports. The US tariff on electric vehicles, in particular, i
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2024 01:09 PM IST with headline  Indian banks to ask regulator to not raise provisioning for infra loans is: 
 Indian banks to ask regulator to not raise provisioning for infra loans The Indian Banks' Association (IBA) will ask the central bank to keep provisioning for infrastructure project loans unchanged in its feedback to the latter's recent proposal to raise the amount of capital lenders should set aside against such loans, three banking sources told Reuters on Wednesday.Last month, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) proposed that banks and non-banking financial companies (NBFC) set aside a provision of 5% of the total loan amount of infrastructure projects at the construction phase, a sharp jump from the 0.4% required currently.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"The blanket 5% provisioning requirement will sharply increase the cost of implementing such projects and will hurt project financing," one of the sources familiar with the matter said."In case there is a delay in project completion, additional provisioning requirement should be brought in," the source said.Indian banks had seen large defaults across infrastructure loans from 2012-2013 on account of exuberant lending, straining the banking system.
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2024 01:03 PM IST with headline  US economic slowdown? Watch what consumers do, not how they feel is: 
 Consumer sentiment has simply become a less reliable predictor of consumers’ behaviour. Over the past few years, even as they have been gritting their teeth and complaining about higher prices, consumers have been fueling US economic growth. Now their pandemic savings are gone and the labour market is cooling off, raising the question: How much will the economy slow down?First, two points: One, economic growth has shocked repeatedly on the upside, beating expectations for growth quarter after quarter since the pandemic recovery began in 2020. The economy is bigger today than forecasters such as the Congressional Budget Office predicted even prior to the pandemic. Two, households entered this year with more consumer purchasing power than they had prior to the pandemic.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAnd yet frustration with inflation over the past few years soured Americans’ views of the economy, even as their real consumption and economic well-being grew. The result was lowered consumer sentiment and false predictions of recession.This history of pessimism presents a new risk for the US economy. Have we been crying wolf for so long that we will fail to see the actual wolf at the door?The first step is to realize that consumer sentiment has simply become a less reliable predictor of consumers’ behaviour. So while sentiment has been improving, this doesn’t necessarily mean that spending will stay strong throughout 2024.
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2024 12:27 PM IST with headline  RBI's reserve maintenance system for banks fails on Tuesday, say traders is: 
 RBI's reserve maintenance system for banks fails on Tuesday, say traders India's central bank system that enables lenders to manage their day-to-day liquidity needs did not work on Tuesday due to a technical issue, treasury officials said, its first such failure since it was set up nearly four years ago.The automated sweep-in and sweep-out system (ASISO), using which banks park funds at the central bank's Standing Deposit Facility and borrow at its Marginal Standing Facility, went down and funds were neither debited nor credited by the Reserve Bank of India, the officials said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"There was a technical issue, and the ASISO facility in e-kuber that gets automatically triggered around midnight did not go through, so funds have not changed hands," a senior treasury official at a large private bank said.The central bank did not immediately reply to a Reuters' query seeking comment.The treasury officials declined to be named as they are not authorised to speak to media.
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2024 11:45 AM IST with headline  DGFT restricts gold jewellery imports from all countries except UAE is: 
 Representative image The Director General of Foreign trade (DGFT) has put import of gold jewellery of certain types under restricted category, according to a notification issued by the foreign trade body on June 11.The following categories have been put under restricted imports: gold studded with pearls, gold studded with diamonds of two categories of heading, gold studded with other precious and semi-precious stones, and gold parts.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe restriction will be applicable on the imports of the above-mentioned types of jewellery from all the countries, except from the UAE under Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA) between the two countries, according to the DGFT notification.Experts are citing the sudden rise in imports from countries like Tanzania and Indonesia as one of the reasons behind DGFT's decision, as these imports were creating distortion in the market.Gold prices have been under pressure in the last few days as investors US May inflation report set to be out later in the day and the Federal Reserve's policy announcement for insight into how soon it will cut interest rates.
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2024 10:13 AM IST with headline  RBI likely intervened in NDF to stop rupee from hitting record low, traders say is: 
 RBI likely intervened in NDF to stop rupee from hitting record low, traders say India's central bank likely intervened in the non-deliverable forward market before the local spot market opened on Wednesday, to prevent the rupee from dropping to an all-time low, six traders said.The rupee was at 83.5525 to the U.S. dollar, only marginally away from the 83.5750 all-time low it hit in April.Story continues below AdvertisementThe currency opened at 83.5450. It would have probably opened at a new low if not for the Reserve Bank of India's intervention, traders said.The RBI "hammered" dollar/rupee before the open, an fx salesperson at a private sector bank said.The central bank has regularly intervened in both the NDF and the local spot market to keep a check on the rupee
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2024 09:46 AM IST with headline  Will the world get a first glimpse of Modi 3.0 this Friday? is: 
 Prime Minister Narendra Modi HighlightsPM Modi may use the G7 opportunity to indicate India’s stance on different global issuesWorld leaders will be keen to hear Modi as India remains a key balancing factor in the new global orderModi’s re-election signals a likely continuity in India’s foreign policyClimate could top the G7 agenda and Modi will have to put across India’s views in no uncertain termsA bigger international clout will help bolster his domestic image to
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2024 09:05 AM IST with headline  The depressing message from the Household Consumption survey is: 
 - The government’s Survey on Household Consumption Expenditure 2022-23 shows that the share of food in total household expenditure has been coming down over the years. The data show that it used to be 59.4 percent of household spending in 1999-2000, came down to 53.1 percent in 2004-05, to 52.9 percent in 2011-12 and now, for 2022-23, it’s down to 46.38 percent. That is entirely as expected, because, as people’s incomes go up, the proportion of their incom
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2024 09:20 AM IST with headline  Decoding Economics: India’s two hundred and fifty thousand democracies is: 
 - The recently-concluded general election has proved once again that India is a vibrant democracy. But perhaps many of us do not know how vibrant it really is. For, India is not just one democracy or a democracy of its 28 states. It’s actually 250,000 democracies. That is how the authors of a World Bank research paper, "Two hundred and fifty thousand democracies: A review of Village Government in India’’ describe it, rather brilliantly. The authors are Siddhart
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2024 08:11 AM IST with headline  Opening session of Parliament to see NDA weighing options for budget date, speaker election: Report is: 
 On June 27, President Droupadi Murmu is likely to address both houses. As the new NDA government assumes office and the timing of the opening session of Parliament attracts all attention, the administration is weighing two approaches, according a report in The Economic Times.The first option entails splitting the budget session into two. In this arrangement, the initial phase would include a recess, with the motion of thanks in the first segment and the budget presentation in the latter. A decision is expected soon, with the government reportedly favouring this divided session structure, according to the ET report.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA significant aspect of the first session of the 18th Lok Sabha will be the election of the Speaker. Despite lacking a majority, the BJP aims to retain this position. If the session is divided, the first part will consist of eight sittings from June 24 to July 3. A pro-tem speaker, typically the senior-most Lok Sabha member, will be appointed to administer the oath to the newly elected MPs over the first two days. The Speaker's election is proposed for June 26.Moneycontrol could not independently verify the news.On June 27, President Droupadi Murmu is likely to address both the Houses. The subsequent days, from June 28 to July 3, will be dedicated to debating the motion of thanks to the President's address. The Economic Survey is expected to be presented on July 3, followed by a recess. The second part of the session is likely to commence on July 22, with the Union budget presentation. This segment is expected to run until August 9, encompassing 15 sittings, the ET report added.
 
The news published on the date June 11, 2024 08:08 PM IST with headline  Wall St slips before inflation data, Fed decision; Apple rebounds is: 
 Wall St slips before inflation data, Fed decision; Apple rebounds Wall Street’s main indexes declined on Tuesday as caution dampened investor enthusiasm ahead of a crucial inflation reading and a policy announcement from the Federal Reserve expected this week.Shares of Apple recovered 2.1% to hit a record high after declining in the previous session following its long-awaited AI strategy, presented at a developer conference.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHowever, major banks including JPMorgan Chase & Co, Citigroup and Bank of America dropped over 2%, sending the broader banking index down to a seven-week low.The S&P 500 and the Nasdaq posted record closing highs on Monday in a choppy session, boosted by shares of Nvidia after its 10-for-one stock split.Markets are readying for Wednesday’s release of the Consumer Price Index report for May and the conclusion of the Fed’s two-day policy meeting.
 
The news published on the date June 11, 2024 07:27 PM IST with headline  World Bank says global growth stabilizing but well below pre-pandemic levels is: 
 World Bank says global growth stabilizing but well below pre-pandemic levels The World Bank on Tuesday said the U.S. economy’s stronger-than-expected performance has prompted it to lift its 2024 global growth outlook slightly but warned that overall output would remain well below pre-pandemic levels through 2026.The World Bank said in its latest Global Economic Prospects report that the global economy would avoid a third consecutive drop in real GDP growth since a major post-pandemic jump in 2021, with 2024 growth stabilizing at 2.6%, unchanged from 2023.Story continues below AdvertisementThat’s up 0.2 percentage point from the World Bank’s January forecast, largely on the strength of U.S. demand
 
The news published on the date June 11, 2024 05:32 PM IST with headline  Pimco warns of more US Regional Bank failures on property pain is: 
 Pimco warns of more US Regional Bank failures on property pain Pacific Investment Management Co. expects more regional bank failures in the US because of a “very high” concentration of troubled commercial real estate loans on their books.“The real wave of distress is just starting” for lenders to everything from malls to offices, John Murray, Pimco’s head of global private commercial real estate team, said in an interview. His division sits within Pimco’s $173 billion alternatives business.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdUncertainty over when the Federal Reserve may cut interest rates has exacerbated challenges faced by the commercial real estate sector, where high borrowing costs have hammered valuations and triggered defaults, leaving lenders stuck with assets that are tough to sell. Contrary to some market expectations, larger banks have been disposing of some of their higher quality assets first to avoid deeper losses, according to Murray.“As stressed loans grow due to maturities, however, we expect that banks will start selling these more challenged loans to reduce their troubled loan exposures,” he said, adding his team has been snapping up CRE loans offloaded by some large US banks for the past 18 months.The turmoil has been particularly felt among regional banks, which boosted their CRE exposure that in many cases is now worth only a fraction of their value at their peak. Smaller banks have continued to worry investors ever since the collapse of a few last year. Earlier this year, US Bancorp, the largest regional bank by assets, increased its provisions for credit losses in the first quarter to $553 million.
 
The news published on the date June 11, 2024 05:01 PM IST with headline  How did the US eclipse Europe in productivity? Mass layoffs is: 
 What the US got was mass layoffs followed by a rapid economic comeback. After the start of the Covid-19 pandemic brought fear and lockdowns in early 2020, many European countries acted quickly to preserve jobs. In Germany, the long-established system of Kurzarbeit — which literally translates as “short work” — allowed employers in hard-hit sectors to keep workers on the payroll, with the government footing much of the cost, even as work dried up.That’s not what happened in the US, where payroll employment fell by 19.3 million jobs from February to May that year, and the unemployment rate approached 15 percent. In Germany, unemployment topped out at 3.9 percent. In the full euro area, where unemployment was much higher than in the US before the pandemic, it peaked at 8.6 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdChalk one up for enlightened European capitalism, right?Well … maybe not. Here’s quarterly labour productivity, measured by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development — the best source for comparable statistics on the economies of its affluent-democracy members — as gross domestic product per employed person, in the US, Germany and the euro are during the same period.Productivity growth is what made the world rich starting around 1800 after millennia of relative stagnation and continues to be the best ticket to improving living standards over time. US labour productivity is about 6 percent higher than at the start of the pandemic while the euro area’s is half a percent lower, which is a significant shift in affluence and economic power. Measured in dollars of GDP per hour worked (a more precise gauge of labour productivity than GDP per employee that is available only from the OECD on an annual basis), France and Germany, the two highest-productivity large economies other than the US, have now fallen 15 percent and 11 percent behind it, respectively.
 
The news published on the date June 11, 2024 04:33 PM IST with headline  French bond yields hit 7-month high as election worries markets is: 
 French bond yields hit 7-month high as election worries markets France's 10-year government bond yield climbed to its highest since November on Tuesday, rising for a second day, after the French president called a snap vote following a surge in support for the far-right in European Parliament elections.France's 10-year bond yield jumped 6.5 basis points (bps) to 3.304% after surging 12 bps a day earlier, its biggest one-day jump in 11 months as the new election raised concerns about already fragile public finances, analysts said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPresident Emmanuel Macron called the snap legislative election after heavy losses to Marine Le Pen's National Rally in the European Parliament election over the weekend.Le Pen's far-right party would win a snap election but fall short of an absolute majority, according to a first opinion poll held since Macron called the vote."Markets are worried that the possible next government will not stick to fiscal consolidation," said Sophia Oertmann, analyst for EMU government bonds at DZ Bank.
 
The news published on the date June 11, 2024 04:13 PM IST with headline  Rupee ends at record closing low as Asian peers slip is: 
 Rupee ends at record closing low as Asian peers slip The Indian rupee weakened slightly on Tuesday to end at a record closing low, pressured by weakness in other Asian peers and despite intermittent dollar selling intervention by the central bank in late trade.The dollar sales, however, helped cap further sharp losses, traders said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe rupee INR=IN settled at 83.5650 against the U.S. dollar, 0.1% below its close of 83.5050 in the previous session.The Indian currency has been hovering near its record low of 83.5750 hit in April but regular market intervention from the Reserve Bank of India has curbed the decline, traders said.Choppy trading last week due to the national election results spurred increased hedging from importers and exporters, data from a local clearing house showed.Most Asian currencies slipped on Tuesday, with the Korean won, down 0.2%, leading losses. The dollar index was slightly higher at 105.2.
 
The news published on the date June 11, 2024 04:01 PM IST with headline  Two oil deals lay bare the OPEC+ problem is: 
 OPEC+ remains in the price management business. OPEC+ is mystified that the oil market somehow misread the latest tweaks to its lattice of oil production targets, carve outs and claw-backs that now have all the clarity of a tax form. Brent crude hiccupped after the oil exporters’ club met and indicated it wants to unwind some output cuts. That prompted several ministers to chide bearish analysts and reporters,and reiterate the group’s stabilizing effect — from the stage at an economic conference in Russia, the de facto co-head of OPEC+ currently engaged in a less-than-stabilizing invasion of its neighbor. Oil prices ticked up a bit.The likes of Saudi Arabian Energy Minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman seem to be focused on a distraction, perhaps even whistling past the graveyard. Two transactions show why. A few days before OPEC+ met, ConocoPhillips, the largest US exploration and production company,announced a $23 billion deal, including assumed debt, to acquire Marathon Oil Corp. A day later, Riyadh announced a secondary offering of shares in Saudi Arabian Oil Co., or Saudi Aramco, which raised just over $11 billion.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdConoco’s deal continues the consolidation of the fragmented US onshore oil and gas sector. Back in 2019, Conoco Chief Executive Ryan Lance delivered a reality check, pointing out that, despite the vaunted success of the shale boom, the excessive spending involved had trashed the industry’s returns. Investors burned by this and mindful of climate change concerns would no longer pay up for the oil option embedded in E&P stocks, either. Rather than exuberance, they demanded resilience exemplified by scale, efficiency and cash payouts.It worked. Between the end of 2019 and the end of 2023, the E&P sector’s average net debt fell from 3.7 times Ebitda to 1.2 times and aggregate free annual cash flow jumped from $6.2 billion to $33.1 billion. Energy stocks’ total return bested the S&P 500 by 10 percentage points. Consolidation played a big part by bolstering balance sheets, cutting overhead and marrying up adjacent acreage for more efficient drilling. The collective share of US shale resources controlled by just the integrated oil majors plus Conoco jumped from 14% in 2019 to 25% today, according to Rystad Energy. In shale’s Permian basin heartland, just six firms now control 62% of the remaining resources.A decade or so ago, at the height of oil’s first shale boom, the ungainly portmanteau “manufracturing” was thrown around; the idea being that, with shale’s resources unlocked, oil producers were less about riskywildcatting and more about dependably fracking wells the way a factory stamps out parts. It was aspirational then given the industry’s financial incontinence but is closer to where the likes of Conoco are taking things now, focused on sweating rigs and fracking crews efficiently across a bigger, diversified set of resources rather than adding and dropping them as oil prices swing.
 
The news published on the date June 11, 2024 03:39 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | The indomitable faith of domestic investors is: 
 Concerned investors will seek reassurances through electoral wins in the upcoming state elections. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. As India concluded its mammoth general election, domestic investors upped their bets in domestic equity markets. Equity mutual funds sawrecord inflows in May and total assets under management reached Rs 59 lakh crore.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe massive inflows have helped equity markets overcome the election results disappointment. The benchmark Nifty 50 index is back at pre-election result levels. “The sanguine reaction of domestic non-institutional investors reflects their unshaken faith about high returns from the equity market,” Kotak Institutional Equities said in a note.Indeed, the formation of the NDA government and reappointment of earlier leaders in crucial ministries assures policy continuity. Speculation that a resurgent opposition and a reduced majority will force the new government to step up welfare measures sparked buying in shares of consumer goods and so-called defensive sectors. Read Anubhav Sahu’s piece on how foreign investors should be viewing the market as a new Modi government takes charge.Apprehensions about the new coalition government and future budget spending persist. Concerned investors will seek reassurances through electoral wins in the upcoming state elections.
 
The news published on the date July 19, 2024 06:44 PM IST with headline  Excl: Govt likely to decriminalise minor I-T offences in Budget is: 
 The government has been moving towards reducing tax compliance In a first, the Centre is likely to fulfil a long standing demand of the industry to decriminalise minor income tax offences to prevent prosecution and replace it with penalty, with the aim to boost ease of doing business, a senior government official said.“The government will promote ease of doing business. The Centre is looking at decriminalising some provisions in the Income Tax Act. Threshold will be decided for minor offences for decriminalisation. For some minor offences, a penalty will be acceptable to end prosecution,” the official told Moneycontrol.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe provisions of tax laws have not been decriminalised so far. For income tax offences, the government’s long stand till now has been prosecution.“There will be decriminalisation of some rules relating to income tax offences. Government is looking at compounding the offences so that there is no prosecution for minor offences, only penalty,” he said.Internal discussions in the government are currently ongoing to decide a threshold for the compounding of offences, he added.Right now, criminal prosecution in income tax law gets triggered even for trivial offences such as delayed payment of TDS for which even directors of a company can be prosecuted. One can be prosecuted under various Sections of the Act and be imprisoned for periods ranging from three months to seven years.
 
The news published on the date June 11, 2024 10:51 AM IST with headline  MC Inside Edge: Data centres are the new oil, order won or in-the-pipeline, fund managers cautious on QIPs, Emperor’s favourite is: 
 Know about all the major deals and all the inner goings-on from Dalal Street. Castrol shares are slowly recovering after last Tuesday’s drubbing. The stock is seeing interest from some HNIs and PMS funds. Their bullishness stems not so much from a positive outlook on the auto sector, as much as on growing demand for data centres in the country. Data centres are energy guzzlers and need coolants, which are right up Castrol’s alley. The stock swiftly rallied from around Rs 140 levels in December to a 7-year high of Rs 230 by April but have since been struggling. One reason could be that domestic mutual funds and FIIs are yet to warm up to the story. Also, the HS Busy mutual fund dumping around 2.6 million shares in May added to pressure on the stock. That the stock remained in a narrow range amid the selling suggests accumulation by strong hands.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt a time when some MNCs are trimming stakes in their Indian arms, the foreign parent holding just 51 percent in Castrol is a major source of comfort to bulls as it lowers the possibility of a promoter stake sale.Bird in hand…or in the bushShares of Wardwizard Innovations & Mobility are on a tear. A few days ago, the company informed the stock exchanges that it had bagged a $1.29 billion order from Philippines-based Beulah International Development Corporation. There is some confusion over the wording of the release, and it is not clear if the order has already been given, or if it is just a memorandum of understanding that has been signed. Meanwhile, insider trading disclosures of the firm show that promoter group entities had sold 1.5 million shares in the last three trading sessions of May.
 
The news published on the date June 12, 2024 05:39 PM IST with headline  How should FIIs play as Modi 3.0 takes charge at the Centre? is: 
 The flow of funds continues to depict divergent trends as far as the Indian market is concerned. Highlights - Quarterly performance largely backed by improved realisations - Medium-term triggers China plus and protectionist measures for tyre industry - Valuations not inexpensive; but improved medium-term outlook Highlights:Signs of policy continuity in the allocation of ministriesFIIs can return to India because of waning policy uncertaintyUS Presidential election can influence China Plus oneBottom-up approach remains key, given limited margin of safety in some pocket
 
The news published on the date June 11, 2024 09:57 AM IST with headline  Follow big money moves to know which way the wind is blowing is: 
 When I started out as a trader 38 years ago it was a very different market. There were no mobile phones, Youtube influencers, internet and trading “academies” that mentored traders. You had only one option – you traded or you didn’t.If you chose to trade, you HAD to be ahead of the crowds. Traders are brain warriors who fight and win with their ideas. You are not required to run or swim faster, punch harder, or thro
 
The news published on the date June 11, 2024 09:27 AM IST with headline  Why a hawkish RBI will prevail over a dovish MPC is: 
 Winds of change as MPC composition is set to alter HighlightsTwo MPC members voted for a policy rate cut at June meetingVoting for rate cut was on the rationale that real interest rates are high right nowCurrent dissent in MPC should be ignored as the committee’s composition would change August onwardsAny rate cuts in October or beyond would depend on the view and assessment of RBI official
 
The news published on the date June 10, 2024 07:14 PM IST with headline  Nvidia 10-for-1 stock split goes into effect after stock price for the chipmaker doubled this year is: 
 Nvidia 10-for-1 stock split goes into effect after stock price for the chipmaker doubled this year Nvidia's 10-for-1 stock split goes into effect on Monday, giving investors nine additional shares for every one that they already own.Nvidia's stock price has more than doubled this year after more than tripling in 2023 and it's now the third most valuable company in the S&P 500. The meteoric ride allowed Nvidia to briefly surpass Apple last week as the second most valuable company in the U.S. Nvidia surpassed $3 trillion in market value.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe chipmaker has seen soaring demand for its semiconductors, which are used to power artificial intelligence applications. The company's revenue more than tripled in the latest quarter from the same period a year earlier.Nvidia, which has positioned itself as one of the most prominent players in AI, has been producing some eye-popping numbers. Here's a look:Nvidia's total market value as of Wednesday. Earlier this year, it passed Amazon and Alphabet to become the third most valuable public company, behind Microsoft ($3.168 trillion) and Apple ($3.029 trillion). The company was valued at around $418 billion two years ago.
 
The news published on the date June 10, 2024 06:49 PM IST with headline  India's mutual fund assets nears 60 trillion rupees in May, data shows is: 
 India's mutual fund assets nears 60 trillion rupees in May, data shows India's mutual fund assets rose to 58.6 trillion rupees ($701.90 billion) in May, inching closer to adding 10 trillion rupees in less than a year, the fastest rise on record, data showed on Monday.While the fund industry took five decades to build the first 10 trillion rupees of assets since its inception in 1964, it has added the last 9 trillion rupees of assets in less than six months.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdInflows into equity mutual funds rose 83% month-on-month to 346.97 billion rupees last month, with investors continuing to prefer small- and mid-caps, according to data from the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI).Net equity mutual fund inflows in May are the highest on record since April 2019, when AMFI started reporting monthly mutual fund flows in the current format.Domestic equity mutual funds have seen net inflows every month since February 2021, aggregating 5.58 trillion rupees, well above net foreign inflows over the same period.
 
The news published on the date June 11, 2024 01:45 PM IST with headline  Should we worry about GDP growth under coalition regimes? is: 
 Narendra Modi and Manmohan Singh India is set to return to the era of coalition governments after a decade as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) fell short of a majority, because of which it is dependent on key allies to form a government.That begs the question many are raising: Could this lead to a slowdown in growth?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAs it turns out, coalition governments and GDP growth are not necessarily interlinked. After the initial decades of independence, India has seen several instance where the economy did well without single-party majorities at the helm of affairs. And, of course, apart from the governing regime, a country’s economic performance depends on a whole host of factors including the state of the global economy.India is currently the fastest growing major economy in the world, with a GDP growth rate of 8.2 percent in FY24 and projected expansion of 7.2 percent in the ongoing financial year.Commentary from global agency Fitch Ratings on June 6 warned about challenges in passing legislation on the more ambitious parts of the government reform agenda, given a return to coalition politics in India.
 
The news published on the date June 10, 2024 05:51 PM IST with headline  Nvidia sparks chatter over possible Dow inclusion after stock split is: 
 Nvidia sparks chatter over possible Dow inclusion after stock split Nvidia's 10-for-1 stock split aimed at luring retail investors has taken effect, sparking speculation over chances of the artificial intelligence bellwether's inclusion in the blue-chip Dow index.The split, aimed at lowering per-share value to make it more affordable for employees and investors, increases the company's outstanding shares without changing the stock's valuation.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"A side-effect of Nvidia's stock split will be to put it in the running to follow Amazon and Apple into the Dow, potentially pushing out fellow chip stock Intel that currently has the lowest weighting," said Ben Laidler, global markets strategist at digital brokerage eToro.The stock dipped 0.5% in premarket trading on Monday, after climbing nearly 27% since the company announced the share split and a strong forecast last month. The dominant AI chip maker had also clinched $3 trillion in market value and surpassed Apple to become the second-most valuable firm in the world, trailing only Microsoft.Market analysts said stock splits tend to attract individual investors that trade in smaller lots and have lesser capital to deploy than institutional investors.
 
The news published on the date June 10, 2024 05:09 PM IST with headline  Renewable energy push likely to be insulated from coalition compulsions is: 
 India aims to achieve 50 percent cumulative installed power generation capacity from non-fossil fuel sources by 2030. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, sworn in for a third successive term on June 10, is likely to continue the push for renewable energy even as his government tries to balance India’s energy security and emission commitments, experts and industry players have said.RK Singh, who as the minister for power and new and renewable energy led the clean-energy push, lost the recently concluded Lok Sabha elections. His replacement is not known as portfolios are yet to be allocated to the 71-member council of ministers who took the oath of office along with Modi.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Last year, the government said that we have to add a capacity of 50 gigawatt of renewable energy every year. We are quite confident that there will be continuity even with the changes within the government with the percentage held by coalition partners changing,” JSW Energy chief executive officer and joint managing director Sharad Mahendra told Moneycontrol in an interview on June 10.In its previous term, the Centre said it aimed to achieve 50 percent cumulative installed power generation capacity from non-fossil fuel sources by 2030. India will have to add about 50 GW of renewable energy capacity annually over the next five years, beginning 2024, to meet the ambitious target.So far, India’s best performance has been 15 GW a year.
 
The news published on the date June 10, 2024 05:04 PM IST with headline  Modi 3.0 to usher in reforms with focus on taxation, rural economy, exports is: 
 PM Narendra Modi As the Modi government's third term begins and various ministries ready to roll out their 100-day agenda, a series of reforms are likely, with a focus on economic growth, taxation, infrastructure development, digital innovation and governance improvement. The upcoming July Union Budget is expected to be a major event, featuring numerous significant announcements.In order to clearly indicate the government’s focus on farmer welfare in its third term, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 10 signed his first file authorising the release of approximately Rs 20,000 crore for the 17th installment of the PM Kisan Nidhi for 9.3 crore farmers.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Ours is a government fully committed to Kisan Kalyan. It is therefore fitting that the first file signed on taking charge is related to farmer welfare. We want to keep working even more for the farmers and the agriculture sector in the times to come," stated PM Modi after signing the file.Boost exports: In the coming months and years, the government is expected to focus on the materialisation of more free trade agreements with major trading partners and blocs, including the UK, Oman and the European Union. With manufacturing being a top priority for the government to boost private investment and job creation, enhancing exports are expected to be in focus.Ease of doing business and tax reforms: The government is prioritising the decriminalisation of certain key legal provisions to enhance the ease of doing business. A working group with officials from the NITI Aayog and the Finance Ministry is already working on it.
 
The news published on the date June 10, 2024 04:42 PM IST with headline  Rupee falls 10 paise to close at 83.50 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee falls 10 paise to close at 83.50 against US dollar The rupee settled for the day lower by 10 paise at 83.50 (provisional) against the US dollar on Monday, following a rising American currency in overseas markets and a sluggish trend in domestic equities.Forex traders said the downside in the rupee was restricted by easing political uncertainties as Narendra Modi was sworn in as Prime Minister on Sunday for a record-equalling third term.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange, the local unit opened at 83.48 and settled for the day lower by 10 paise at 83.50 (provisional) against the American currency.On Friday, the rupee appreciated 13 paise to 83.40 against the US dollar."We expect the rupee to trade with a slight negative bias on strong US Dollar amid rising expectations of a delay in interest rate cut by the US Federal Reserve due to tight job market," said Anuj Choudhary, Research Analyst at Sharekhan by BNP Paribas.
 
