The news published on the date April 14, 2024 05:49 PM IST with headline  Oil seen opening up after Iran's attack on Israel, but further gains may depend on response is: 
 Oil seen opening up after Iran's attack on Israel, but further gains may depend on response Oil prices are expected to rise on Monday after Iran's attack on Israel over the weekend, analysts said on Sunday, but further gains may depend on how Israel and the West choose to retaliate.Iran launched explosive drones and missiles at Israel late on Saturday in retaliation for a suspected Israeli attack on its consulate in Syria on April 1, a first direct attack on Israeli territory that has stoked fears a wider regional conflict.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdConcern of a response from Iran to the strike on its embassy compound in Damascus supported oil last week and helped send global benchmark Brent crude on Friday to $92.18 a barrel, the highest since October.It settled that day up 71 cents at $90.45, while U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude futures rose 64 cents to $85.66. Trading is closed on Sunday."It is only reasonable to expect stronger prices when trading resumes," said Tamas Varga of oil broker PVM. "Having said that, there has been no impact on production so far and Iran has said that 'the matter can be deemed concluded'.
 
The news published on the date April 13, 2024 01:58 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Weekender | Horses for courses is: 
 The medium-term may not be as rosy as the markets are picturing it. Dear Reader,The scandal of the week was definitely the US CPI print coming in at a high 3.5 percent year-on-year for March 2024, higher than 3.2 percent for February. US bond yields moved up immediately, while market expectations of the Fed’s rate cut were pushed back from June this year to September. This FT story, free to read for Moneycontrol Pro subscribers, approvingly cites JP Morgan chief Jamie Dimon’s letter to shareholders this week, which talked of ‘stickier inflation and higher rates than markets expect.’Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBut if inflation is a bugbear for the US, the opposite is true for China, where retail inflation came in at a meagre 0.1 percent year-on-year for March, once again raising fears of deflation and cries for more stimulus. Consumer price inflation in the Eurozone came down to 2.4 percent in March, prompting European Central Bank chief Christine Lagarde to hint at a possible rate cut in June. And in Japan, they are heaving a sigh of relief that inflation is on the upswing and this FT story says it may finally be becoming a more normal economy after years of negative interest rates. As far as policy rates go, we increasingly seem to have horses for courses.One reason for the differences in inflation rates and monetary stance is growth. While the US economy grew at 3.4 percent year-on-year in Q4, 2023, for the Eurozone GDP growth was 0.1 percent.India, of course, is an outlier on growth, with the Asian Development Bank pegging GDP growth at 7 percent for 2024-25 and 7.2 percent for 2025-26. Retail inflation fell in March 2024 to 4.85 percent, as expected, and core inflation remained low, but month-on-month food inflation was up a bit. As RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said in his monetary policy statement, ‘’The strong growth momentum, together with our GDP projections for 2024-25, give us the policy space to unwaveringly focus on price stability.’’ He also said ‘’The success in the disinflation process so far should not distract us from the vulnerability of the inflation trajectory to the frequent incidence of supply side shocks.’’ We wrote here about when India is likely to see the much-awaited cut in the policy rate.
 
The news published on the date April 13, 2024 10:04 AM IST with headline  Bet on Chinese economic decline at your own peril is: 
 China is the world’s most competitive producer of electric cars, lithium-ion batteries and solar panels. Is the Chinese growth story over? Former banker Uday Kotak has issued a warning of Chinese implosion on X (formerly Twitter), rating agency Fitch has put a negative outlook on Chinese prospects, and China’s growth rate for 2024 is forecast to come in at 4.8 percent by the Asian Development Bank, a shade lower than the Chinese government’s own target of 5 percent. Over the next 10 years, 300 million are going to move out of China’s working age population, as they age. And the overall population is shrinking,Is the dragon past its prime, and should the elephant prepare to race past this huffing and puffing mass of wiggly hubris? Not so fast. There is every reason to believe that China is transitioning to a more mature stage of economic growth, rather than trudging down a slope of decline. It would be wrong for Indian companies or the government to fashion plans based any assumption of Chinese economic decline.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdUS’s Factory Capacity Warning to China US treasury secretary Janet Yellen has just completed her second official visit to China. Her mission was to persuade China to stop destroying jobs in the US by building up excess capacity and flooding the world market with everything from disposable nappies to snazzy electric cars.Janet Yellen is a diminutive economist, not Tom Cruise in drag; and so, this particular Mission Impossible lived up to its name, instead of succeeding against all odds. Chinese officials politely refused to assure her that Chinese companies would cut back production so that less competitive American companies could continue to inflict avoidable costs on consumers around the world.
 
The news published on the date April 12, 2024 05:46 PM IST with headline  India's forex kitty  jumps $2.98 billion to new high of $648.562 billion is: 
 In September 2021, the country's forex kitty reached an all-time high of USD 642.453 billion, a level that was breached in March this year. India’s forex reserves jumped by USD 2.98 billion to a fresh peak of USD 648.562 billion for the week ended April 5, the RBI said on Friday. In the previous reporting week, the forex kitty had increased by USD 2.951 billion to USD 645.583 billion, which was an all-time high. In the previous reporting week, the forex kitty had increased by USD 2.951 billion to USD 645.583 billion, which was an all-time high.In September 2021, the country’s forex kitty reached an all-time high of USD 642.453 billion, a level that was breached in March this year. The reserves took a hit as the central bank deployed the kitty to defend the rupee amid pressures caused majorly by global events, but there has been a steady accretion over the past few months. The reserves took a hit as the central bank deployed the kitty to defend the rupee amid pressures caused majorly by global events, but there has been a steady accretion over the past few months.Story continues below AdvertisementFor the week ended April 5, the foreign currency assets, a major component of the reserves, increased by USD 549 million to USD 571.166 billion, the data released on Friday showed.Expressed in dollar terms, the foreign currency assets include the effect of appreciation or depreciation of non-US units like the euro, pound and yen held in the foreign exchange reserves. Gold reserves increased by USD 2.398 billion to USD 54.558 billion during the week, the RBI said. The Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) were up by USD 24 million to USD 18.17 billion, the apex bank said. The Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) were up by USD 24 million to USD 18.17 billion, the apex bank said. India’s reserve position with the IMF was also up by USD 9 million to USD 4.669 billion in the reporting week, the apex bank data showed
 
The news published on the date April 13, 2024 01:58 PM IST with headline  British consumers are being asked to defy gravity again is: 
 Brits have endured a long stretch of rising costs and many of those who faced the end of competitive mortgage deals a year or so ago have now refinanced at higher rates. Simon Wolfson, chief executive officer of Next Plc, said recently that he had not been this optimistic about the retailer’s outlook for seven years. Then this week, Ken Murphy, CEO of Tesco Plc, said he was seeing a “gentle improvement” in consumer sentiment.The landscape is certainly better than it was a year ago, when, despite some positive signs, UK shoppers were still in the grip of inflation. But we should still be wary of threats to any green shoots.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe welcome news is that the cost-of-living crisis is dissipating. Food prices in the country rose by 4.5 percent in March, the lowest level since February 2022, according to data provider Kantar. A year ago, they were increasing by around 17 percent. Murphy said Tesco’s assumption was for grocery inflation to stabilize at a low single-digit percentage for the remainder of the year.Although there are still some flashpoints — cocoa, coffee, olive oil and potatoes — consumers are managing those high prices by controlling their spend elsewhere, often trading down to private labels or shopping in discount stores. And energy costs, although high by historic levels, are becoming less of a burden.Meanwhile, UK wages are rising ahead inflation, which should stretch household budgets further. The National Living Wage rose 10 percent from the start of this month. While this puts pressure on retailers’ cost base, it should deliver more money into the pockets of their customers. What’s more, we are probably at the end of the rake hiking cycle, potentially bringing some comfort to borrowers.
 
The news published on the date April 13, 2024 02:23 AM IST with headline  The Reading List: April 12, 2024 is: 
 A selection of articles curated by our research and opinion teams. In a world strapped for time, we thought you may find it useful to have a selection of articles we read this past week. As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. Occasionally, we may stray from these subjects.These links may be from external websites we frequent o
 
The news published on the date April 13, 2024 02:15 AM IST with headline  Why microeconomics and implementation matters: Policy lessons from PM Modi’s approach on development is: 
 The policy approach of the UPA was distinctly different from that of the NDA under Prime Minister (PM) Modi. In a standard course in Economics, growth and development are typically taught from a macroeconomics perspective. At the same time, microeconomics focuses on individuals' choices, whether as consumers or producers. As a result of this dichotomy, when expert advice on growth and development is needed for policymaking, one typically turns to the macroeconomists. However, there is no objective basis for why such a dichotomy exists; after all, the primary focus should be on the growth and development of the individual or the choices individuals make to grow and develop. Macroeconomists understand this dilemma and make desperate attempts to provide a micro foundation by constructing a hypothetical representative agent who might or might not bear any resemblance to a real person or an individual. In my opinion, this dichotomy between the macro outlook and the micro perspective produces a subtle difference in the philosophical approach towards growth and development. In this regard, the policy approach of the UPA was distinctly different from that of the NDA under Prime Minister (PM) Modi. The UPA had a macro approach to growth and development, with greater emphasis on the aggregate numbers. In comparison, the NDA under PM Modi focused much more on micro-revolutions with greater emphasis on implementation so that basic infrastructure such as digital technology, toilets, roads, houses, bank accounts, LPG, water, etc., reached all, irrespective of socio-economic status, religious beliefs or diverse geographies. The emphasis of the NDA under PM Modi was not limited to how much the government is spending in the aggregate sense but on whether it is reaching the intended individual beneficiaries.This philosophical difference in approach was reflected in the debate in the upper house of the Parliament when the former Finance Minister of the UPA, who perhaps represents the intelligentsia of the UPA, mocked Prime Minister Modi's digital payment infrastructure plan to take it to the lowest sections of the society. He believed such an ambitious plan would be a spectacular failure, an unnecessary waste of scarce resources. Given that his thinking was primarily macro with a limited capacity to think in micro details, he could not envision (a) that such an ambitious plan could be implemented on the ground and (b) that it would readily be accepted and adopted by the most ordinary citizens. While focusing on aggregate expenditures, he was blinded to the transformative nature of the micro-revolutions unleashed at the individual's level. In less than five years, India's digital public infrastructure, including digital payments and direct benefit transfers, is considered a "logistical marvel" worldwide. The macro approach of the UPA to growth and development with a focus on aggregate numbers starkly contrasts with the micro and individualistic approach to the growth and development of the NDA under PM Modi.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn the next part of the essay, I provide additional examples highlighting the difference between macro and micro perspectives on growth and development.In a standard microeconomic framework, wages are directly proportional to the marginal productivity of labour, which measures the incremental increase in output from a one-unit increase in labour. The more productive the labour, the higher the wages. However, if labour is subjected to diminishing returns, with further increases in labour, output grows, but at a lesser rate; in other words, with additional units of labour, the marginal productivity of the labour would fall, and therefore, the wages would be lower if more and more people can do the same job. Hence, wages reflect the value in exchange (and not the value in use) and would largely depend on how scarce the labour is. It is crucial to bear in mind that in such a framework, there is no virtue signalling in higher wages. If households want to raise their wage and improve their standard of living, they would have to invest resources in activities that increase their productivity. One possible way for the household to achieve this would be investments in health and education. Therefore, from a micro perspective, household expenditure on health and education is an investment, not consumption. However, from a macro perspective, health and education are not considered economic investment expenditures but consumption expenditures.Second, if we look at some of the flagship programmes of the government, such as the PM Jan Arogya Program, which is perhaps the world's most extensive health insurance programme, the macro perspective of the programme would limit itself to the aggregate health expenditure, while the micro perspective focuses on the reduction in the health-related precautionary motive to save and therefore, leading all households (whether they avail the insurance or not) to increase their consumption expenditure, which in turn increases aggregate consumption and hence, higher output.
 
The news published on the date April 12, 2024 03:25 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Deluded expectations is: 
 What happens to India’s enthusiastic stock market investors? Dear Reader,A popular trading philosophy is to buy on rumours and sell on confirmation. If we scour through past market cycles, short or long, we can find innumerable moments where indices run up ahead of quarterly earnings and then just dissipate once the report cards pour in. That does not mean companies always under-deliver on profitability, but it simply shows that markets love hope. Being wrong is better than being left out.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe present day scenario is not different. India’s twin stock indices have scaled new peaks, running on the dope of hope that companies will report another quarter of robust profitability. Nifty has already crossed the year-end target of two brokerages. Of course, there will be a bunch of laggards that are on the ebb of the cycle and there will be shining stars, as is the case in every quarter. This season is about the final quarter that will close the curtains on the annual performance in FY24.Ananya Roy brings us a sensible explanation on what to expect this earnings season. “Overall, India Inc is expected to report sales growth in the mid-single digits, while bottom-line growth is expected to be slightly higher,” she points out in her piece.That does not sound upbeat enough to warrant the kind of outperformance showed by the equity indices over the past two months. Analysts aren’t as upbeat as investors on earnings. As my colleague R Sreeram pointed out on Tuesday, earnings moderation is expected across companies and not just the bigwigs.
 
The news published on the date April 14, 2024 06:57 PM IST with headline  What’s behind the rupee’s never-ending depreciation? is: 
 As the Fed aggressively jacked up rates in 2022 to fight inflation, there was a massive influx of foreign capital into US treasuries HighlightsThe rupee is facing a steady bout of depreciation against the dollarIf it was the US Fed hiking rates initially that lent strength to the dollar, the US economy’s strength continues to support itIndia is not alone in this situation, with other EM currencies giving it companyBut the REER shows that the INR is holding up well against other currenciesWhile the pressures on the rupee-dollar exchange rate will remain, the fluctuations will be tightly range-bound thanks t
 
The news published on the date April 12, 2024 09:47 AM IST with headline  Is an HUF structure a no-brainer for managing taxes and assets? Warts you should be aware of is: 
 How does the HUF generate income or own income-yielding assets? It is an open secret that Hindu Undivided Family as an entity for Hindus, Sikhs, etc. (referred to as Hindus generally here) helps save tax and also helps in managing finances even better. While seem to give an impression that this is something many people may have missed and should know about, Chartered Accountants/finance advisors know this since ages, so much so that even a lay person wit
 
The news published on the date April 12, 2024 08:40 AM IST with headline  Chart of the Day: How credit growth floated up through underpricing of risks in FY24 is: 
 The RBI has been pointing to the lack of complete transmission of policy rate hikes onto lending rates Between April 2022 and February 2023, the Reserve Bank of India hiked the policy repo rate by 2.5 percentage points, and since then has kept the rate unchanged at 6.50 percent. When policy rates are hiked, banks invariably pass on the expense over to borrowers through hikes in loan rates. This process of transmission has been made more efficient through the external benchmark-based lending rate (EBLR) in which banks price their loans by charging a spread ove
 
The news published on the date April 12, 2024 08:51 AM IST with headline  India’s coal power project pipeline is biggest in the world outside China is: 
 Coal power plant India may be scaling up its green power generation capacities. But the rapidly rising electricity demand is leading to more coal power plants. So much so, India now has the largest number of coal power plants under construction and in the pipeline after China, says a Global Energy Monitor report. The pre-construction capacities are estimated to have risen to 46,033 megawatts (MW). After India, Bangladesh and Indonesia have the largest number of coal power projects in th
 
The news published on the date April 11, 2024 10:15 AM IST with headline  ADB raises India's GDP growth forecast for FY25 to 7% on robust investment, consumer demand is: 
 Indian economy The Asian Development Bank (ADB) on Thursday raised India’s GDP growth forecast for the current fiscal to 7 percent from 6.7 percent earlier, saying the robust growth will be driven by public and private sector investment demand and gradual improvement in consumer demand.The 2024-25 growth estimate is, however, lower than 7.6 percent projected for the 2022-23 fiscal. Strong investment drove GDP growth in the 2022-23 fiscal as consumption was muted, the ADB said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe ADB had in December last year projected the Indian economy to expand 6.7 percent in the 2024-25 fiscal."The economy grew robustly in fiscal 2023 with strong momentum in manufacturing and services. It will continue to grow rapidly over the forecast horizon. Growth will be driven primarily by robust investment demand and improving consumption demand. Inflation will continue its downward trend in tandem with global trends,” the April edition of the Asian Development Outlook released on Friday. Growth will be robust despite moderating in FY2024 and FY2025, it said.For the 2025-26 fiscal, the ADB has projected India’s growth at 7.2 percent. The ADB said exports are likely to be relatively muted this fiscal as growth in major advanced economies slows down but will improve in FY2025.
 
The news published on the date April 11, 2024 07:21 AM IST with headline  Mohamed A. El-Erian: Fed faces a big risk, but it’s not the one many think is: 
 More analysts now expect Fed Chair Jerome Powell to abandon his narrative of the last two months of nothing having changed in the favourable inflation picture I have been arguing for almost a year now, here and elsewhere, that US consumer price inflation would become sticky after a period of favourable disinflation going into the end of 2023. Wednesday’s hotter-than-expected data release, the third in a row, is evidence that this scenario is indeed unfolding.The annualized three-month measure of core inflation is now 4.5%, notably higher than the corresponding six- and 12-month measures. What has yet to be widely recognized, however, are the policy implications of this if the objective is to retain the economic exceptionalism that has served the US well so far.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt its simplified level, the continuation of favourable US disinflation required that price increases in the services sector moderate at a significantly faster rate before the outright price declines that we’ve seen in goods reversed course. This is not happening. Thus, the turn higher in the inflation metrics; and the dramatic market repricing of expected interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve from seven at the start of 2024 to less than two today.This repricing by traders is consistent with the view of a heavily data-dependent Fed. Policymakers, haunted by their gross mischaracterization of inflation in 2021 as transitory and memories of the monetary policy mistakes of the 1970s, will tend to be heavily influenced by backward-looking data in deciding how to get to the central bank’s 2% inflation target. This is despite a widespread recognition that their policy tools act with a lag.More analysts now expect Fed Chair Jerome Powell to abandon his narrative of the last two months of nothing having changed in the favourable inflation picture. Instead of hoping it was about seasonal factors, they reckon he will shift to a more hawkish tone, just as he finally did in November 2021 when, in front of Congress, he retired the word transitory from the Fed’s vocabulary ahead of inflation peaking at over 9%.
 
The news published on the date April 11, 2024 07:25 AM IST with headline  The Fed choked clean energy. It’s about to start reviving that is: 
 That clean energy juggernaut came shuddering to a halt last year as rising rates dried up funds Think of the people who have done most to impede clean power over the past few years, and a few obvious figures suggest themselves: Vladimir Putin. Mohammed Bin Salman. Donald Trump. Jerome Powell?That last one may seem out of place. The Federal Reserve governor hasn’t always delighted climate activists, but he’s done his best to stay out of the bitter debates between advocates of fossil fuels and green technology. And yet the actions he’s taken to manage interest rates over the past few years have quietly been one of the most decisive factors slowing the pace of the energy transition.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAs the most drastic pace of US monetary tightening since the early 1980s gives way to a more accommodative policy, those macroeconomic headwinds that have hindered the rollout of renewables in recent years could be on the brink of turning into tailwinds. That might accelerate the uptake of clean energy in ways we’re yet to appreciate.To understand why, it’s worth considering that debt has the same outsized importance to clean energy as fuel has to fossil power. About half of the cost of gas-powered electricity is gas itself. Renewables are fuel-free, but that means almost all of their expenditure is incurred upfront — financed with debt. (1)That makes them more dependent on the cost of finance than carbon-intensive alternatives. When Jay Powell lifts interest rates, he makes renewables less competitive. When he cuts, the dynamic goes into reverse.
 
The news published on the date April 11, 2024 06:55 AM IST with headline  Why write a shareholder letter? Ask Dimon or Buffett is: 
 In his letter, you can find Dimon’s thoughts on everything from diversity, equity and inclusion to the mini banking crisis of 2023 Jamie Dimon has a lot to say.The JPMorgan Chase & Co. CEO’s annual letter to shareholders, which was released on Monday, clocked in at just under 28,000 words. That count does not include the 58 footnotes or the reprint of a 1992 Wall Street Journal op-ed from one-time presidential nominee George McGovern that Dimon thinks you should read in full for its nuanced perspective on regulation. (As a point of reference, this column is about 700 words and most of you won’t make it to the end.)Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn his letter, you can find Dimon’s thoughts on everything from diversity, equity and inclusion to the mini banking crisis of 2023. The last third is essentially a political manifesto, with analysis and policy suggestions for most of the world’s ills, along with polemics on the power of American freedom.But the common theme and overarching message of the missive is that Jamie Dimon is an important man with important ideas.In an era when CEOs aren’t just leaders of companies but also “thought leaders” who weigh in not just on corporate policy but public policy, the annual shareholder letter has taken on a new significance in corporate America. For a certain subset of executive bigwigs, it’s a chance to hone their public personas and show shareholders and the general public not just what they think but how they think.
 
The news published on the date April 11, 2024 06:38 AM IST with headline  Human psychology and investments: Daniel Kahneman’s theory decoded is: 
 The overwhelming fear of losses can cause investors to behave irrationally and make bad decisions The Princeton University psychologist Daniel Kahneman, who recently passed away at the age of 90, is the pioneer in behavioural economics and won a Nobel Prize for his work which established a relation between psychology and economics.The Prospect theory, the work for which Kahneman won the Nobel Prize, proposed a change to the way humans make decisions while facing risks, especially those related to investments.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhat is the Prospect theory? Amos Tversky and Daniel Kahneman conducted a series of psychological experiments and found that investors value gains and losses differently, placing more weight on perceived gains versus perceived losses.For the exact same amount, investors feel the impact of losses much more than gains.
 
The news published on the date April 10, 2024 11:54 PM IST with headline  Fed favours reducing monthly asset runoff pace by roughly half is: 
 While a narrow majority of policymakers had penciled in at least three rate cuts for 2024 when they met in March, the latest data weaken the case for reductions as soon as June and point toward fewer cuts in 2024. Federal Reserve policymakers “generally favoured” slowing the pace at which they’re shrinking the central bank’s asset portfolio by roughly half, minutes from their latest gathering showed.The record of the March 19-20 Federal Open Market Committee meeting also showed “almost all” officials judged it would be appropriate to begin lowering borrowing costs “at some point” this year. However, inflation data since then has upended expectations for three interest-rate cuts this year.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPolicymakers “noted that the disinflation process was continuing along a path that was generally expected to be somewhat uneven,” according to the meeting minutes released Wednesday.Fed officials began discussing plans for slowing down the process of unwinding their massive balance sheet, known as quantitative tightening, though no decisions were made at the meeting.Although most officials saw the process as proceeding smoothly, they “broadly assessed” it would be appropriate to take a cautious approach to further runoff given market turmoil in 2019, the last time the Fed tried to shrink its portfolio.“The vast majority of participants thus judged it would be prudent to begin slowing the pace of runoff fairly soon,” the minutes showed.The Fed has been winding down its holdings of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities — a process known as quantitative tightening, or QT — at a rate of $95 billion per month. Fed Chair Jerome Powell said at his press conference on March 20 the Fed is considering slowing the pace fairly soon to “help ensure a smooth transition, reducing the possibility that money markets experience stress.”Officials generally favored keeping the existing cap on mortgage-backed securities, but adjusting the cap on Treasuries, the minutes showed.Story continues below AdvertisementWall Street is homing in on what level of bank reserves is appropriate to guarantee liquidity and avert past blowups in financial markets. The amount of cash institutions have parked at the Fed stands at nearly $3.5 trillion.Persistent Inflation The minutes also underscored officials’ reluctance to lower rates until they have more evidence inflation is firmly on a path to 2%, the rate they see as the sweet spot in a healthy economy.March data on consumer prices released earlier Wednesday showed that January and February figures were more than a blip: A key measure of inflation exceeded economists’ expectations for the third straight month, posting a 0.4% rise from February and 3.8% from a year earlier.While a narrow majority of policymakers had penciled in at least three rate cuts for 2024 when they met in March, the latest data weaken the case for reductions as soon as June and point toward fewer cuts in 2024.Nine of 19 Fed officials indicated last month they expect no more than two cuts. Atlanta Fed President Raphael Bostic — who votes on policy decisions this year and expects just one reduction in the fourth quarter — and Minneapolis’ Neel Kashkari have floated the possibility of no rate cuts at all this year if inflation data continue to disappoint.Ahead of the minutes, investors saw a chance of fewer than two reductions in 2024 and are expecting the first move won’t come until September at the earliest, according to futures markets.Policymakers voted unanimously to leave interest rates unchanged in a range of 5.25% to 5.5% last month and said in their post-meeting policy statement that they would hold them there until officials gained “greater confidence” that inflation was moving toward 2% in a sustainable way.Powell said in remarks at Stanford University on April 3 that officials have time to let data guide policy given the strength of the economy and progress on inflation so far.US employers have added 829,000 jobs in the first three months of the year, as strong consumer demand continues to bolster economic activity.In quarterly economic projections released last month, Fed officials ramped up their estimates for 2024 growth, to 2.1% from 1.4% in December. Their outlook for core inflation also ticked higher to 2.6% by the end of the year
 
The news published on the date April 10, 2024 05:00 PM IST with headline  Large caps to be in focus with incremental capex expansion is: 
 Key impediments in the path could be tepid exports due to geopolitical uncertainty and uneven global growth The start of a new fiscal year ushers in hope for a better year ahead. Instead of being drawn in with a rose tinted-glass vision, let us opt for a realistic view of what the financial landscape offers ahead.My eyes fell upon the large cap funds that are well placed to potentially gain from the high-decibel development pitch that is being played on the political scene. Government consumption and investments so far have led the World Ban
 
The news published on the date April 10, 2024 04:18 PM IST with headline  Copper prices have risen 11% in 2024 so far. Why is the metal surging? is: 
 According to Trafigura, artificial intelligence could add a global demand of 1 million tons of copper by 2030. Copper has been on a surging spree in 2024, with the metal jumping 11 percent so far as investors see a positive outlook ahead over global demand.The metal has also been trading near 14-month high on the London Metal Exchange around $9,500 per metric ton, while it is at an all-time high on the Shanghai Metal Exchange. It is also trading at a 16-month high on the CME.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhy is copper surging?There are several factors behind the jump in prices.The Cobre Panama project was forced to shut down after Panama's top court ruled that its contract was unconstitutional. This project was one of the world's largest open-pit copper mines and its closure has created a big hole in the supply chain. Another global mining company Anglo American had recently announced that it plans to cut its spending and as part of the move, it will put one of its copper mines on ‘care and maintenance’.
 
The news published on the date April 10, 2024 01:26 PM IST with headline  Mohamed El-Erian: Inverted pyramid of investments needs shoring up is: 
 - Early in my investment management career, I was taught to design long-term investment portfolios as a pyramid. A solid foundation of secular and structural positions, with a much smaller opportunistic and tactical top. In other words, construct a durable structure that could mostly resist unsettling market volatility and navigate economic and geopolitical shakes.Today, this once-reassuring construction seems to have become gradually inverted: a shrunken secular and structural base now has to support a larger opportunistic and tactica
 
The news published on the date April 10, 2024 10:38 AM IST with headline  US: $200 billion of M&A wasn't enough in oil patch is: 
 The US Federal Trade Commission is already scrutinizing the last round of M&A oil deals. (Source: Bloomberg) Even after a record $200 billion dealmaking frenzy last year, US oil and gas producers haven’t consolidated nearly enough. On a-per-barrel basis, there are still too many companies, too many chief executives, and too many drilling rigs wooing a limited pool of available capital.The solution is simple: more M&A.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdGranted, the industry is today a lot slimmer than it once was. If you attend industry events where people still exchange business cards – rather than pair iPhones — and you keep a rolodex, just flip through it to see how much has changed since the pandemic.I did so a few weeks ago as I was setting up a meetings ahead of an industry conference in Houston. The result was a trip down memory lane: Anadarko Petroleum, among the first to go; Whiting Petroleum, merged and re-named; Endeavor Energy Resources, about to disappear; Cimarex Energy, merged; Concho Resources, long gone; Encana Corp., rebranded. The list goes on.
 
The news published on the date April 10, 2024 06:21 PM IST with headline  By year-end, 20 coal mines likely to come into operation is: 
 By year-end, 20 coal mines likely to come into operation Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × Twenty coal mines are likely to become operational by the end of this year, a move that will reduce coal imports and help meet rising power demand.Peak power demand in the country is likely to cross 400 GW by 2030.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAccording to an official source, these 20 coal blocks include seven of Coal India and three of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL). They will contribute another 100 million tonne (MT) in three to four years.State-owned Coal India accounts for over 80 per cent of domestic coal output.SCCL is jointly owned by the Telangana government and the Centre on a 51:49 equity basis.The country for the first time crossed the milestone of 1 billion tonne of coal and lignite production in 2023-24, and is not very far from its next target to eliminate coal imports by 2025-26, Coal and Mines Minister Pralhad Joshi had earlier said.The country's total coal and lignite output was 937 MT in 2022-23 fiscal year, as per official data.In FY24, about 22.20 MT coal was imported for blending, as compared to 30.80 MT in 2022-23.Story continues below Advertisemen
 
The news published on the date April 10, 2024 01:10 PM IST with headline  Start-up Street | Perpetual funds – an idea whose time has come? is: 
 - As an investor (limited partner-LP) in a fund, I recently encountered a peculiar situation. The fund was sitting on two investments beyond its extended fund life and SEBI was insisting the fund either exit the investment and return monies to LPs or do an “in-Specie” distribution of shares in the two companies. Incidentally, LPs were okay with a further extension to enable the fund to plan the exit more judiciously than do a hasty or distress sale.Thi
 
The news published on the date April 10, 2024 10:11 AM IST with headline  India’s 10-year bond yield to ease to 6.50-6.75% by H2 on FPI demand, policy rate cuts is: 
 India’s 10-year benchmark yield has moved in a narrow band in March. Highlights:US Federal Reserve and other central banks could begin policy rate cuts this yearMPC's status quo on rates in April meeting was on expected linesIndia’s 10-year benchmark yield has moved in a narrow band in MarchHeavy load of state borrowings had weighed on sentiment even as central government supply seems manageableThe 10-year bond could consolidate in 6.50-6.75 percent range in 2024-25, helped by foreign investor demand and policy rate cuts March was a crowded and mixed month fo
 
The news published on the date April 10, 2024 08:34 AM IST with headline  Decoding Economics | Corporate debt and boom-bust cycles is: 
 - One big reason for the extended slowdown in the Indian economy before the pandemic lay in the piling up of bad loans at banks. This was known as the twin balance sheet problem, since the over-leveraged balance sheet of the corporate sector prevented it from expansion, while the corresponding bad loans at banks slowed down lending. The cleaning up of these balance sheets took time.Prior to this cyclical slowdown in the economy, loan growth had been ver
 
The news published on the date April 10, 2024 08:21 AM IST with headline  Will solar prospects radiate on the protectionist push? is: 
 According to various reports, the current solar module capacity is somewhere near 50 GW, which may go up to 60 GW by the end of next year. (Representative image) HighlightsThe ALMM has been made effective April 1This list is to incentivise local solar module manufacturingThe list applies to government-sponsored solar projectsThe ALMM order can create temporary disruption in the marketThe bigger worry for local solar manufacturers could be the overcapacity in the global marketThe protectionist instinct of the central government is again at play with the resurrection of the ALMM (Approved List of Models and Manufacturers) from the beginning of April.The ALMM is a non-tariff shiel
 
The news published on the date April 10, 2024 06:21 PM IST with headline  India wants to be the world’s next growth driver is: 
 India wants to be the world’s next growth driver India is posting some of the most robust economic growth rates right now in the world. And with China slowing, India could become the new engine of global economic growth.But it will take strategic investments, increased labor participation and more for India to achieve its economic ambitions. Today on the show, Bloomberg’s New Delhi-based economics and politics reporter Dan Strumpf joins host Sarah Holder to discuss India’s roadmap, and what its success could mean for the rest of the world.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHere is a lightly edited transcript of the conversation:Sarah Holder: At the edge of New Delhi, in the city of Noida, the groundwork for India’s economic future is being built.Vast blocks of electronics factories have sprung up there – from a million-square-foot Dixon Technologies plant staffed by about 26,000 workers; to a Samsung facility that’s churning out 120 million phones a year.
 
The news published on the date April 09, 2024 06:17 PM IST with headline  Oil prices steady after drop as Middle East ceasefire hopes wane is: 
 Oil prices steady after drop as Middle East ceasefire hopes wane Oil prices stabilised on Tuesday as prices ticked higher amid fading hopes that negotiations between Israel and Hamas would produce a ceasefire in Gaza.Brent crude futures edged up 6 cents, or 0.07%, to $90.44 per barrel by 1156 GMT. U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures were down 2 cents or 0.02% at $86.41.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn Monday, Brent posted its first decline in five sessions and WTI its first in seven as a fresh round of Israel-Hamas ceasefire discussions in Cairo spurred prospects of a breakthrough.Those hopes faded after Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said a date had been set for Israel's invasion of the Rafah enclave in Gaza, IG analyst Tony Sycamore wrote in a note.The continuation of the conflict keeps alive the risk that other countries could be drawn in, especially Iran which is a major Hamas backer and the third-largest producer in the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC).
 
The news published on the date April 09, 2024 04:12 PM IST with headline  Gold hits record high for eighth session in a row is: 
 Gold hits record high for eighth session in a row Gold prices hit a record high for an eighth consecutive session on Tuesday with support from momentum-following funds and inflated geopolitical tensions.Spot gold was up 1.1% at $2,363.42 per ounce by 0936 GMT after hitting a record high of $2,365.09.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Strong underlying momentum with the buy-on-dip still the prevailing strategy among traders," said Ole Hansen, head of commodity strategy at Saxo Bank."Geopolitical risks related to Russia/Ukraine and the Middle East are still playing a supporting role, and the focus is changing from the negative impact of lower rate cut expectations towards higher and sticky inflation," he added.The broader market is waiting for the U.S. Federal Reserve's policy meeting minutes and U.S. inflation data due on Wednesday for fresh signals on future U.S. rate path.
 
The news published on the date April 09, 2024 03:39 PM IST with headline  The lithium world confronts hard truths after epic boom and bust is: 
 The lithium world confronts hard truths after epic boom and bust A stuttering recovery in lithium prices is providing a fresh reminder of why the dramatic rally of recent years was followed by an even more breathtaking collapse: a fast-expanding industry that is more prepared than ever to keep pumping out supplies.Prices have bottomed out but have struggled to meaningfully rebound, partly because miners, refiners and carmakers are still working through a mound of surplus stock clogging up the supply chain. And while some projects and mines were hurt by the pricing plunge, several of the biggest producers insist they’ll keep expanding into the glut, further clouding the outlook for an eventual recovery in prices.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA vital component in rechargeable batteries, lithium has been thrust into the global spotlight as one of the world’s most important commodities. The boom and bust of the past three years has exposed a once-niche and tiny market that is evolving and adjusting in real time to the unprecedented rollout of electric vehicles across the globe.For much of the past year, that has meant reconciling a massive new wave of supply that caught many by surprise, while evidence mounts that EV demand is coming in weaker than expected.Now, a key question facing the industry is whether it’s doomed to repeat the cycle over again. Sharp spikes and plunges make planning difficult for both miners and their customers, but a prolonged bear market on the other hand would put pressure on smaller producers and increase concentration among a handful of powerful suppliers.
 
The news published on the date April 09, 2024 02:42 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Time for an earnings reality check is: 
 The moderation in growth rates at information technology services, oil and gas, metals and mining companies is weighing on earnings expectations. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe benchmark stock market indices Sensex and Nifty extended gains in Tuesday's trading (April 9), clocking new highs. Upbeat macroeconomic data and buoyant retail investors are sending benchmark indices higher.Yet, as valuations turn punchier, investors would do well to turn their focus to earnings, a crucial driver of long-term stock market returns.Worryingly, there seems to be a growing gap between investor expectations and headline earnings numbers.
 
The news published on the date April 09, 2024 12:23 PM IST with headline  Lex | Private equity’s latest trick is to buy and hold is: 
 - Investors should be asking what distinguishes private equity from other, more traditional, investment strategiesWarren Buffett famously said that when he owns outstanding businesses with outstanding management teams, his favourite holding period is “forever”. Fix-and-flip private equity bosses have come round to his way of thinking.Evergreen funds, which do not need to return money to investors within the decade or so of the traditional closed-end fund, are taking off. Their number has doubled over the past five year
 
The news published on the date April 09, 2024 05:34 PM IST with headline  Heatwave's Impact: Why India Cannot Be Complacent About Its Rising Temperatures
 
The news published on the date April 09, 2024 12:04 PM IST with headline  Taiwanese groups consider overseas headquarters to hedge against Chinese attack is: 
 China claims Taiwan as part of its territory and threatens to annex it if Taipei resists unification indefinitely. Kathrin Hille in TaipeiSeveral large Taiwanese manufacturers are considering setting up a second headquarters overseas to ensure they can keep operating in the event of a Chinese attack on their country.The plans, which remain preliminary in most cases, highlight how global efforts to secure supply chains are forcing companies that play a vital role in manufacturing networks, especially for tech products, to make extensive changes.“We have clients who are looking into or planning for setting up
 
The news published on the date April 09, 2024 12:07 PM IST with headline  US junks 200 years of economics to block China clean tech is: 
 Janet Yellen is rejecting fundamental principles of economics to justify a policy of restricting public access to affordable and clean technology. Imagine if a Chinese company announced plans to build the biggest electric-vehicle battery factory the world had ever seen.Up to $5 billion would be spent on a single plant to manufacture more power packs every 12 months than the world produced last year. The sprawling facility might cover 1.5 square miles (4 square kilometers), employ an army of 6,500 people, and drive costs down 30 percent, devastating any competitors that failed to keep pace. The company in question, furthermore, had racked up more than $1 billion of losses over the past seven years, and would post another $5 billion over the coming seven.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdDoes that sound like the definition of predatory overcapacity, hollowing out the world’s manufacturing sector in the service of aggressive Chinese mercantilism? If so, it’s worth considering that the facility we’re talkingabout is how Elon Musk pitched Tesla Inc’s Gigafactory One, a half-hour drive east of Reno, Nevada, when he first announced it 10 years ago.That should be a consideration for Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen, who is visiting China in an attempt to persuade the government and companies that their investments in clean technology are excessive and damaging.“Government support is currently leading to production capacity that significantly exceeds China’s domestic demand, as well as what the global market can bear,” Yellen said in a speech to the American Chamber of Commerce in Guangzhou. That excess is building in “solar, EVs, and lithium-ion batteries,” she said last month at a US solar plant.
 
The news published on the date April 09, 2024 09:46 AM IST with headline  As Atos sinks deeper, it is advantage Indian IT firms is: 
 - HighlightsFrench IT firm Atos SE reported a net loss of $3.7 billion for 2023Atos has $5 billion debt, piled up partly due to its acquisition spree of past yearsAtos’s problems are exacerbated by its unstable top managementAtos’s issues have given an opportunity for Indian IT firms to win business in EuropeIndian IT firms have ensured management stability, in contrast to AtosIf any assurance was needed that, notwithstanding recent hiccups, Indian IT has a safe future, take
 
The news published on the date April 09, 2024 08:36 AM IST with headline  Congress manifesto offers alternative ideology, can the party take it to the masses? is: 
 - For too long, the Congress party has been seen to lack a coherent ideology. The perception in the minds of voters has been that it is a weak party united only in its opposition to the BJP. Apart from a promise of secularism as against the BJP’s Hindutva ideology, a promise considerably weakened by Congress leaders often going in for what is termed ‘soft Hindutva’, little was known about the policies the party stands for. Indeed, i
 
The news published on the date April 09, 2024 08:14 AM IST with headline  India inflation likely cooled in March, albeit slightly is: 
 India inflation likely cooled in March, albeit slightly India's consumer price inflation likely eased to a five-month low of 4.91% in March but was still above the Reserve Bank of India's 4% medium-term target as food price rises persist, according to economists polled by Reuters.RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said last week that food price volatility remains a concern. Food price rises have outpaced headline inflation for several months, affecting millions of poor households already heavily dependent on government food subsidies.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdConsumer price inflation likely eased to 4.91% in March from February's 5.09%, an April 4-8 Reuters poll of 50 economists predicted. Forecasts for the data, which will be released on April 12, ranged from 4.57% to 5.35%."We estimate that CPI inflation moved markedly lower...The disinflation is broadly attributed to easing in momentum across food, fuel and core items, though some base effects also helped," noted Shreya Sodhani, analyst at Barclays.Inflation was expected to return to the RBI's target next quarter but be above it in subsequent quarters, according to a separate Reuters survey on the longer-term outlook.
 
The news published on the date April 09, 2024 06:09 AM IST with headline  India's February silver imports hit record and set to rise 66% this year is: 
 India's February silver imports hit record and set to rise 66% this year India's silver imports surged by 260% in February to a record high, as lower duties encouraged large purchases from the United Arab Emirates (UAE), government and industry officials told Reuters, adding they were on track to increase by 66% this year.Higher demand in India, the world's biggest silver consumer, could support global prices trading near their highest in three years.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndia imported a record 2,295 metric tons of silver in February, up from 637 tons in January, said a government official, who declined to be named as he was not authorised to talk to the media.In February, India imported 939 tons from UAE, as traders bought large volumes to benefit from a lower duty, the official said.The country's silver imports surged to 2,932 tons in the first two months of 2024 compared to 3,625 tons for all of 2023, according to provisional data from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry.
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2024 09:05 PM IST with headline  Mismatch in HRA claims: No special drive launched to reopen cases, CBDT clarifies is: 
 Apprehensions are about retrospective taxation in this matter and re-opening of cases on issues pertaining to HRA claims is completely baseless, CBDT said Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) on April 8 refuted several media reports that claimed a special drive has been initiated to reopen cases of mismatch between house rent allowance (HRA) and actual rent paid by taxpayers.“There is no special drive to re-open cases of mismatch, and media reports alleging that large-scale re-opening is being undertaken by the CBDT are completely misplaced,” the apex direct tax body said in a statement.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdApprehensions are about retrospective taxation in this matter and re-opening of cases on issues pertaining to HRA claims is completely baseless, it added.CBDT said that certain cases of mismatch in information came to the notice of Income Tax department and the taxpayers were alerted to take corrective action.“Data analysis was carried out in some high-value cases of mismatch between the rent paid by the employee and receipt of rent by the recipient for the FY 2020-21. This verification was done in a small number of cases without re-opening bulk of cases, especially since updated return for FY 2020-21 (AY 2021-22) could have been filed by the taxpayers concerned only till 31.03.2024,” CBDT clarified.
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2024 08:55 PM IST with headline  Stocks rise as oil cools; Treasury yields hit four-month high is: 
 Stocks rise as oil cools; Treasury yields hit four-month high Equity indexes advanced slightly on Monday as oil prices retreated after a recent rally while U.S. bond yields hit their highest since late November and investors continued to rein in bets on Federal Reserve interest rate cuts.The dollar index slipped in thin trading as investors focused on U.S. inflation data later this week, while the yen slipped to near 34-year lows versus the greenback as traders remained alert for any potential action from Japanese authorities to support the weakening currency.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOil prices fell on Monday as geopolitical tensions eased somewhat after Israel withdrew more soldiers from southern Gaza. Talks on a truce began on Sunday and continued on Monday although a Hamas official said no progress had been made, despite Egyptian sources saying headway had been achieved."There's a cautious break in the action. After a fairly strong first quarter and questions about Treasury yields and energy prices, investors are taking a break from buying stocks," said Robert Pavlik, senior portfolio manager at Dakota Wealth in Fairfield, Connecticut.While Pavlik said that recent economic data had been encouraging he said investors were questioning "whether it supports this level of stock price."
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2024 08:26 PM IST with headline  US dollar drifts lower ahead of inflation data; yen nears 1990 lows is: 
 US dollar drifts lower ahead of inflation data; yen nears 1990 lows The dollar slipped on Monday in thin trading as investors focused on U.S. inflation data later this week, while the yen slipped to near 34-year lows versus the greenback as traders remained alert for any potential action from Japanese authorities to support the weakening currency.The U.S. dollar fluctuated last week as traders digested a mixed bag of economic data, with a slowdown in services growth followed by unexpectedly strong hiring numbers that prompted the market to pare bets on Federal Reserve rate cuts this year.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe dollar index – which tracks the greenback against six other major currencies – was last down 0.2% at 104.19, while U.S. Treasury yields, which reflect interest rate move expectations, pushed higher.Against the yen, the dollar firmed 0.1% to 151.745, putting it within a whisker of its highest since July 1990.Japanese workers' real wages fell in February for a 23rd consecutive month, data showed on Monday, suggesting higher prices kept up pressure on consumers' spending appetite.
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2024 04:30 PM IST with headline  Gold marches higher on firm demand from top Asian cenbanks is: 
 Gold marches higher on firm demand from top Asian cenbanks Gold prices rose on Monday to hit a record peak for the seventh consecutive session, a move that analysts anticipate could be driven by strong official sector demand from Asia, despite traditional headwinds from a stronger U.S. dollar and elevated interest rates.Spot gold was up 0.3% at $2,335.70 per ounce as of 1002 GMT, after hitting a record high of $2,353.79 earlier in the session. U.S. gold futures gained 0.4% to $2,354.70.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Gold bulls may have taken their latest cues from the People's Bank of China (PBoC), which extended its buying spree of the precious metal for a 17th straight month in March," said Han Tan, chief market analyst at Exinity Group.China held 72.74 million fine troy ounces of gold at the end of March, up from 72.58 million ounces at the end of February, official data showed on Sunday."With the PBoC as well as the Reserve Bank of India soaking up bullion to buffer their respective reserves, this massive buying spree by global central banks is certainly fuelling spot gold's price surge."
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2024 04:27 PM IST with headline  Oil prices edge lower on Middle East ceasefire talks is: 
 Oil prices edge lower on Middle East ceasefire talks Oil drifted lower on Monday after Israel withdrew more soldiers from Gaza and committed to fresh talks on a potential ceasefire in the six-month conflict in the Middle East.Brent crude futures dropped 90 cents or 1%, to $90.27 a barrel by 1000 GMT. U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude was down 86 cents, or about 0.9%, at $86.05.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOil prices had gained about 4% last week on escalating geopolitical tensions.Israel said on Sunday it had withdrawn more soldiers from southern Gaza, leaving only one brigade. The country has been reducing numbers in Gaza since the start of the year to relieve reservists and is under growing pressure from allies to improve the humanitarian situation.Meanwhile, ceasefire talks were revived as Israel and Hamas sent teams to Egypt for talks ahead of the Eid holidays, though a Hamas official on Monday said no progress was made at a new round of talks.
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2024 04:11 PM IST with headline  Rupee settles on flat note at 83.31 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee settles on flat note at 83.31 against US dollar The rupee settled on a flat note on Monday at 83.31 (provisional) against the US dollar, as the support from positive domestic equities was negated by the strength of the American currency in the overseas market. Forex traders said investor sentiments got a boost as crude oil prices retreated from their elevated levels, but the strength of the American currency in the overseas market weighed on the local unit and restricted the uptick.At the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 83.27 against the greenback. The unit hit an intra-day high of 83.23 and a low of 83.33. The local unit finally settled at 83.31 (provisional) against the dollar, unchanged from its previous close.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn Friday, the rupee appreciated 8 paise to close at 83.31 against the US dollar as the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) kept the benchmark interest rate unchanged at 6.5 per cent for the seventh time in a row. "We expect the rupee to trade with a slight positive bias on the rise in risk appetite in global markets on reports that Israel has withdrawn its soldiers from Southern Gaza. FII inflows and strength in the domestic markets may also support the rupee."However, a positive tone in the greenback may cap sharp gains. Investors may remain cautious ahead of inflation data from the US and India later this week. USDINR spot price is expected to trade in the range of Rs 83.10 to Rs 83.50," said Anuj Choudhary, Research Analyst, Sharekhan by BNP Paribas. Meanwhile, the dollar index, which gauges the greenback's strength against a basket of six currencies, was trading 0.07 per cent higher at 104.37 on declining expectations of a rate cut by the US Federal Reserve following a strong jobs report and hawkish comments from Fed officials last week.Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, fell 0.92 per cent to USD 90.33 per barrel. On the domestic equity market front, Sensex advanced 494.28 points, or 0.67 per cent, to close at an all-time high of 74,742.50 points. The Nifty rose 152.60 points, or 0.68 per cent, to settle at a lifetime high of 22,666.30 points.
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2024 02:52 PM IST with headline  India turns net importer of finished steel in 2023/24, data shows is: 
 India turns net importer of finished steel in 2023/24, data shows India was a net importer of finished steel during the 2023/24 financial year that ended on March 31, according to provisional government data seen by Reuters on Monday.The country imported 8.3 million metric tons of finished steel between April and March, up 38.1% from a year earlier, the data showed.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndia's steel mills have called for government interventions and safeguard measures against surging imports. However, the federal Ministry of Steel has resisted calls for curbs, citing strong local demand.The world's second-biggest crude steel producer remains a bright spot globally with robust demand from its construction and automotive sectors.Steel consumption in India jumped 13.4% to 136 million metric tons during the period, reflecting buoyant demand for the alloy in one of the world's fastest-growing economies.India's steel demand is likely to stay strong as the government expects economic growth will outpace the global economy in the next fiscal year.During 2023/24, India's finished steel exports were at 7.5 million metric tons during 2023/24, up 11.5% on year. Crude steel output stood at 143.6 million metric tons, up 12.9% from a year earlier, data showed.Finished steel output during 2023/24 was 138.5 million metric tons, up 12.4% on year, data showed.Story continues below Advertisemen
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2024 02:42 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Year of the consumer is: 
 Is there something about elections that puts consumers in good humour? Dear Reader,Will this be the year that consumer stocks come back in the reckoning? It’s a question that applies particularly to FMCG companies. Despite being a populous country, with a large and high growth economy, India’s consumption engine did not do as well its investment engine did in FY24. This was particularly true for staples. Investors saw the writing on the wall and consumption indices did not do as well as the broad market did.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhy may FY25 be different? One recent data point is improving consumer confidence. The RBI’s Consumer Confidence survey has shown a jump in March 2024 after showing rather downbeat results in recent years. Manas Chakravarty points out that the 2019 elections too saw March’s survey results point to a boost in consumer confidence. Is there something about elections that puts consumers in good humour? If the trend continues in the rest of the fiscal, then that should be welcome news for consumer companies. It is not leading to spending growth as such, shows the survey. But to know the nuances and the big picture, don’t miss reading it.That spending trends have not changed much, as far as FMCG is concerned, is evident from the preliminary results put out by FMCG companies for the March quarter. They have used words such as sluggish and subdued to describe the market conditions in the sectors they operate in, which cover the entire range from home and personal care to foods. But, that is not reason enough to give their results a miss.They talk about price cuts leading to higher demand in pockets. They mention that gross margins are still fat (the difference between sales and total raw material cost) but are being rendered down by spending more on advertising & promotion and on distribution. In distribution, companies expand their direct reach –as opposed to, say, servicing a market through wholesalers—to newer markets, which eventually leads to better results but requires initial investments. This has served companies such as Nestle India very well in recent years.
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2024 01:44 PM IST with headline  India's fuel demand hits new FY record, up about 5% is: 
 India's fuel demand hits new FY record, up about 5% India's fuel consumption fell 0.6% year-on-year in March, but demand for the 2024 financial year was up about 5%, primarily driven by higher automotive fuel and naphtha sales.Total consumption, a proxy for oil demand, totalled 21.09 million metric tons (4.99 million barrels per day) in March, down from 21.22 million tons (5.02 mbpd) last year, preliminary data from the Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC) of the oil ministry showed on Saturday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHowever, fuel demand for the 2024 financial year, ending in March, hit a record high of 233.276 million tons (4.67 mbpd) compared to 223.021 million tons (4.48 mbpd) a year earlier.Sales of diesel, mainly used by trucks and commercially run passenger vehicles, rose 3.1% year-on-year to 8.04 million tons in March and was up 4.4% for the previous fiscal year.Sales of gasoline in March rose 6.9% year-on-year to 3.32 million tons and were up 6.4% for the fiscal year.Sales of bitumen, used for making roads, were largely steady in March, but were up 9.9% for the fiscal year.Sales of cooking gas, or liquefied petroleum gas, rose 8.6% to 2.61 million tons, while naphtha sales jumped 5.5% to about 1.19 million tons, compared with last March, the data showed.The usage of fuel oil fell 9.7% year-on-year in March and declined 6.3% for the fiscal year.Story continues below Advertisemen
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2024 01:01 PM IST with headline  Is Japan finally becoming a ‘normal’ economy? is: 
 Japan’s central bankers and government officials say the country is at a historic inflection point and may finally become a “normal” economy. Kana Inagaki and Leo Lewis in TokyoSimon Kuznets, the Nobel laureate known for his work on standardising the measurement of gross national product, used to group economies into four broad categories: under-developed, developed, Argentina and Japan.From the 1960s, Japan’s extraordinary growth appeared so unique to Kuznets that it warranted its own category. But, starting in the late 1990s, Japan became an outlier in another way: it was the only advanced economy in the world where inflation, interes
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2024 10:59 AM IST with headline  Can power supply manage the twin challenges this summer? is: 
 Enhancing electricity generation is one part of ensuring smooth power supply. (Representative image) HighlightsThe government pulls out all the stops to ensure uninterrupted power supply this summerPower minister R.K. Singh holds review meeting with all stakeholdersPower disruption during the time of election could be embarrassing for the governmentEnhancing electricity generation is one part of ensuring smooth power supplyThere are logistics and other issues that come in the way of meeting peak power demandThe heightened effort to ensure a smooth power supply can put pressure on discom finances and grid infrastructureTh
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2024 09:15 AM IST with headline  Consumer confidence recovers before general election, boosting BJP’s prospects is: 
 The improvement in consumer mood augurs well for the prospects for the BJP. Highlights: Perceptions about employment no longer in negative territoryEmployment perceptions have been net negative consistently since March 2016, with very few exceptionsThere is a similar improvement in the perceptions and expectations of incomeBut spending on discretionary consumption remains subduedThe current situation index---a snapshot of all the consumer confidence indicators-- in the March 2024 survey is at 98.5, the highest since March 2019The message is that urban consumption is ticking up, the recovery fro
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2024 09:52 AM IST with headline  China’s overcapacities are a significant challenge for India and the globe is: 
 In quest for global dominance in geopolitics, China already has built factories in other countries such as Vietnam. Highlights:US has accused China of building overcapacities in key industries which could flood global marketsChina has officially denied overcapacities but its policymakers are aware of the issues at homeBeijing needs to invest for growth, but new energy manufactures and other segments have too much money locked inUS, Europe, Saudi, India and others have set up new energy capacities domestically, putting them at loggerheads with ChinaAmid quest for global dominance in geopolitics, China already has built factories i
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2024 07:16 AM IST with headline  India seeks $100 billion a year in FDI as it woos China hedgers is: 
 India seeks $100 billion a year in FDI as it woos China hedgers India aims to attract at least $100 billion a year in gross foreign direct investment, a top official said, as the South Asian nation courts investors looking to diversify away from China.“Our target is that we will average at least $100 billion over the next five years. The trend is very positive and upward,” Rajesh Kumar Singh, secretary in the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, said in an interview in New Delhi.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe ambitious target compares with an annual average of more than $70 billion in FDI in the five years through March 2023 and would be a reversal in trend after last year’s decline. Singh said that the figure for the current fiscal year will be “closer to” the $100 billion target.The world’s fastest-growing major economy is appealing to businesses that want to hedge against geopolitical tensions by spreading their operations more broadly — sometimes called a “China plus one” strategy. Companies like Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co. have boosted manufacturing in India, taking advantage of incentives offered by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government.Still, foreign investment hasn’t matched the pickup in local manufacturing. Singh attributed that to higher inflation and interest rates in developed nations, as well as geopolitical conflicts and risk perception about emerging markets.
 
The news published on the date April 07, 2024 08:45 PM IST with headline  Janet Yellen says US-China relationship on 'more stable footing' but more can be done to improve ties is: 
 The US has restricted China's access to advanced semiconductors and other technology, saying it could be used for military purposes US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen sent a message of mutual cooperation at a meeting on Sunday with Chinese Premier Li Qiang, highlighting the improvement in relations since her visit to China last year while recognising that major differences remain. After focusing on trade and economic issues for the first two days of her visit, Yellen turned to the broader US-China relationship in the meeting with Li, one of China’s top leaders. After focusing on trade and economic issues for the first two days of her visit, Yellen turned to the broader US-China relationship in the meeting with Li, one of China’s top leaders.While we have more to do, I believe that, over the past year, we have put our bilateral relationship on more stable footing, she said in the ornate Fujian room of the Great Hall of the People on the west side of Tiananmen Square.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdYellen, who is regarded favourably in China, is the first Cabinet member to visit since Presidents Joe Biden and Xi Jinping met in California in November in a carefully orchestrated meeting to set the troubled relationship between their countries on a better course.Li, in remarks before the media before their meeting, said the high media interest in Yellen’s visit shows the high expectation they have … and also the expectation and hope to grow the US-China relationship. China’s emergence as an economic and military power has created a rivalry with the long dominant United States.The US has restricted China’s access to advanced semiconductors and other technology, saying it could be used for military purposes. China, still a middle-income country, accuses the US of trying to constrain its economic development.
 
The news published on the date April 07, 2024 07:00 PM IST with headline  Rate cut may not be soon as these 3 concerns pose upside risk to commodity prices and supply chains is: 
 Reserve Bank of India By Deepak Jasani, head of retail research at HDFC SecuritiesThe RBI MPC (Monetary Policy Committee) voted 5-1 to keep policy repo rate unchanged at 6.5 percent on April 5, maintaining status quo for the seventh time. The MPC is resolute in its commitment to align the CPI to its target of 4 percent as uncertainties in food prices continue to pose challenges. The MPC continued with the ‘withdrawal of accommodation’ stance (with 5:1 majority) to ensure that inflation progressively aligns to the target, while supporting growth. The GDP and inflation forecast for FY25 were maintained at 7 percent and 4.5 percent respectively.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlthough the growth has continued to sustain its momentum surpassing all projections, headline inflation has cooled and core inflation has been the lowest in the past nine months, the MPC remains vigilant to the upside risks to inflation that might derail the path of disinflation. The RBI Governor highlighted global risks from debt overloads and geopolitics, and the recent upturn in oil prices. The RBI retained its inflation forecast for FY25 at 4.5 percent. However, it revised down Q1 forecast by 10 bps to 4.9 percent, and Q2 and Q4 forecast by 20 bps to 3.8 percent and 4.5 percent, respectively.Also read: Adani Green to invest Rs 1.5 lakh cr to build world’s largest renewable energy project: MDLiquidity conditions have improved in recent weeks and the overnight rate (WACR- weighted average call rate) has moved closer to the repo rate. Increased Government spending and foreign inflows due to the inclusion in the JP Morgan bond index are supportive to liquidity conditions.
 
The news published on the date April 07, 2024 06:06 PM IST with headline  RBI presents a balanced policy, change in stance likely in Q2FY25 with 50 bps rate cuts in current financial year is: 
 Reserve Bank of India By Deepak Agrawal, CIO-Debt at Kotak Mahindra AMCThe Reserve Bank of India (RBI) announced the first monetary policy of FY25 on April 5, 2O24. The RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) voted with 5-to-1 majority to keep the key policy repo rate unchanged at 6.50 percent for the seventh consecutive time. The six-member committee also kept the stance unchanged at “withdrawal of accommodation”. One of the MPC members, Professor Jayanth Varma voted to reduce the policy repo rate by 25 basis points (bps) and change in stance to neutral. The transmission of the cumulative 250 bps policy rate hike (since May 2022) into the economy is still underway as per the RBI.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe governor referred “CPI inflation” as the “elephant in the room” and also indicated confidence by stating that “the elephant has now gone out for a walk and appears to be returning to forest”. However, the governor in its commentary mentioned that even though the headline inflation has eased from its December peak, the pressure from food prices is holding back the ongoing disinflation process which is a barrier to achieving a target of 4 percent.Also read: Strong growth momentum, bright outlook keep MPC focused on price stabilityAlso, the MPC left its inflation forecast unchanged at 4.5 percent assuming normal monsoon even though the country braces for extreme summer in the midst of rising crude oil prices and persisting worries about supply chain due to Red Sea crises.
 
The news published on the date April 07, 2024 06:18 PM IST with headline  Adani Green to invest Rs 1.5 lakh cr to build world’s largest renewable energy project: MD is: 
 Vneet Jaain is the Managing Director of Adani Green Energy (AGEL) and also Director at Adani New Industries Limited (ANIL). Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × Adani Green Energy Ltd will invest Rs 1.5 lakh crore to boost capacity to 30 gigawatts (GW) at its Khavda renewable energy project site in Kutch, Gujarat, over the next five years, Managing Director Vneet Jaain told reporters after a site visit.Billionaire Gautam Adani aims to build the world’s largest renewable energy project, spanning 538 sq km of barren land in Khavda, almost the size of Mumbai. Within a year of beginning work, the company has initiated operations for 2GW of the total 30GW planned for the project.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBesides the Rs 1.5 lakh crore on expansion of Khavda project, Adani Green will invest another Rs 50,000 crore on renewable energy projects totalling 6-7 GW in other locations by 2030. The group’s equipment manufacturing arm, Adani New Industries will invest Rs 30,000 crore, taking Adani Group’s total investment to Rs 2.3 lakh crore.“In the ongoing financial year, we are planning to add around 4 GW; it will be 6 GW by March 2025. Subsequent years, we will add 5GW every year…we have plans of setting up in other parts of the country also,” Jaain said.While the 2 GW capacity commissioned at Khavda recently is based on solar power, the project is also setting up wind energy capacity at the same location. The company has already installed windmills and aims to start generating power later this year.
 
The news published on the date April 06, 2024 01:10 PM IST with headline  US and China plan talks on economic growth including manufacturing overcapacity' issue, says US Treasury Secretary Yellen is: 
 Yellen, who started her five-day visit in one of China’s major industrial and export hubs, has focused thus far on what the U.S. considers to be unfair Chinese trade practices in talks with senior Chinese officials. The U.S. and China agreed to hold talks that will address a key American complaint about China’s economic model, Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said on the second day of an official visit to China.The two sides will hold more talks and create two new economic groups dedicated to growth in domestic and global economies as well as anti-money laundering, according to a U.S. statement about the creation of the groups.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdYellen, who started her five-day visit in one of China’s major industrial and export hubs, has focused thus far on what the U.S. considers to be unfair Chinese trade practices in talks with senior Chinese officials.“I think the Chinese realize how concerned we are about the implications of their industrial strategy for the United States, for the potential to flood our markets with exports that make it difficult for American firms to compete,” Yellen told reporters directly after the announcement.“It’s not going to be solved in an afternoon or a month, but I think they have heard that this is an important issue to us.”
 
The news published on the date April 06, 2024 10:01 AM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Weekender | An elephant called Inflation is: 
 The MPC is right to keep up the good fight against inflation Dear Reader,(RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das: "Two years ago, around this time, when CPI Inflation had peaked at 7.8 per cent in April 2022, the elephant in the room was Inflation. The elephant has now gone out for a walk and appears to be returning to the forest. We would like the elephant to return to the forest and remain there on a durable basis.")Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOnce upon a time, deep in the forests of India, there was an elephant named Inflation. Nobody could remember how he came by that name, and one forest guard said the name had probably been given by a drunk economist who had gone to the forest on a safari.Now this elephant one day ventured out of the forest and into the fields, where it gorged on wheat, cabbage, sugarcane, and other such delicacies. He liked the farmlands so much that he made his way further and further into human habitations, ravaging crops and pillaging villages.Rumour has it that he finally found his way to Mumbai, where he settled himself comfortably in a room at the headquarters of the Reserve Bank of India. At least, that is the impression given by this limerick that was reportedly doing the rounds in the city:
 
The news published on the date April 06, 2024 08:01 AM IST with headline  RBI not yet ready for pivot, 100-150 bps repo rate cut likely by FY26, says this chief economist is: 
 Reserve Bank of India By Indranil Pan, Chief Economist at Yes Bank“Last mile of disinflation to be challenging”, this is what the RBI governor had indicated at the February policy. And this probably continues to be the critical theme that continues into April’s policy and could be a determining factor for future policies. By keeping the rates and stance unchanged, RBI reiterated its commitment to bringing inflation to the 4 percent target on a durable basis.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAs per RBI’s and our own projections, CPI inflation would come close to (even go below) the 4 percent target only in Q2FY25, taking away any chance of an early policy pivot. Patience is thus warranted. Even the global atmosphere of a rate cutting cycle is getting into an uncertain zone with most data prints from the US indicating towards a stronger economy there. And even as the last dot-plot indicates 75-bps rate cuts, the recent Fed talk has effectively been pointing to a lower extent of rate cuts in 2024.So, what are the inflation challenges for now and for the medium term. The inflation concerns for the RBI remains hinged on the food prices outlook. In this sense, the RBI would be closely monitoring the Rabi harvesting trends (early start in Rajasthan and MP is a positive), southweat monsoon trends (El Nino is reported to be ebbing and give way to La Nina in June-August), and any vegetable shocks like in 2023.Also read: RBI Monetary Policy: Trend of lower yields to continue
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 10:59 PM IST with headline  Gold shatters record roof, heads for third straight weekly gain on buying momentum is: 
 Gold shatters record roof, heads for third straight weekly gain on buying momentum Gold prices climbed on Friday to hit a fresh record high, as multiple factors including U.S. interest rate cut bets, speculative buying and central bank purchases kept bullion's record rally active despite strong U.S. job growth in March.Spot gold gained 1.3% to $2,320.04 per ounce, as of 10:57 a.m. EDT (1456 GMT), after hitting a record high of $2,324.79 earlier in the session. Bullion has risen 3.8% so far this week and is headed for a third straight weekly gain.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdU.S. gold futures edged 1.4% higher to $2,339.70.There are too many capital inflows and everybody is chasing the market high, which is helping gold prices along with strong central bank purchases and speculative buying, said Phillip Streible, chief market strategist at Blue Line Futures in Chicago.Meanwhile, nonfarm payrolls increased by 303,000 jobs last month, the Labor Department said in its employment report on Friday. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast 200,000 jobs, with estimates ranging from 150,000 to 250,000.
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 10:14 PM IST with headline  Strong will power, target of self-reliance behind defence exports crossing Rs 20k cr: Rajnath Singh is: 
 Union defence minister Rajnath Singh with Network18 Group Editor-in-Chief Rahul Joshi Strong will power and the current government’s vision to become self-reliant in every sector were the factors behind India’s defence exports jumping above Rs 20,000 crore in FY24, said Union minister and senior BJP leader Rajnath Singh in an exclusive interview with Network18 Group Editor-in-Chief Rahul Joshi.“If India has to achieve self-reliance in every matter, then India should achieve self-reliance in matters of defence also. This was his (Prime Minister Narendra Modi's) resolution and on the basis of this resolution, we took our steps forward and today our export target of more than Rs 20,000 crores has been reached,” Singh said during the interview.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHe added further that the value of exports will increase in the next few months.“Now defence equipment is also needed, whether it is tanks, cannons, shells, weapons, ammunitions, they should be made in India and by the hands of Indians. Even engines, engines of fighter planes, we have made an agreement for that too,” the minister said.On asked if the pace of the Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) will increase considering the fact that the Chinese Navy has a bigger fleet of submarines and warships compared to India, the minister said, “It will happen fast. It is already happening fast. In the next term, people will start seeing its results.”
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 06:58 PM IST with headline  US job growth beats expectations in March; wages increase steadily is: 
 US job growth beats expectations in March; wages increase steadily US employers hired far more workers than expected March while raising wages, suggesting the economy ended the first quarter on solid ground and potentially delaying anticipated interest rate cuts from the Federal Reserve this year.Nonfarm payrolls increased by 303,000 jobs last month, the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics said in its closely watched employment report on Friday. Data for February was revised slightly lower to show 270,000 jobs added instead of 275,000 as previously reported.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEconomists polled by Reuters had forecast 200,000 jobs, with estimates ranging from 150,000 to 250,000.The economy is outshining its global peers, despite 525 basis points worth of rate hikes from the U.S. central bank since March 2022 to quell inflation. Economists say most businesses locked in lower borrowing costs prior to the Fed's tightening cycle, providing some insulation from higher rates and allowing them to keep their workers.Household balance sheets are mostly healthy, helping to support consumer spending. The labor market has also benefited from a rise in immigration over the past year. Easing financial conditions are boosting hiring in interest rate-sensitive industries like construction, which should provide a base for job growth even as payroll gains are expected to slow.
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 06:57 PM IST with headline  Gold set for third weekly rise, investors brace for US jobs data is: 
 Spot gold was up 0.1% at $2,291.20 per ounce, as of 1214 GMT, after hitting a record high of $2,305.04 on Thursday. Bullion has risen 2.6% so far this week. Gold prices were headed for their third straight week of gains on Friday ahead of the much-awaited U.S. non-farm payrolls data, supported by strong safe-haven inflows and prospects for lower U.S. interest rates this year.Spot gold was up 0.1% at $2,291.20 per ounce, as of 1214 GMT, after hitting a record high of $2,305.04 on Thursday. Bullion has risen 2.6% so far this week.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdU.S. gold futures edged 0.1% higher to $2,310.40."The upward trajectory of gold prices over the past two months can be attributed to heightened geopolitical instability and anticipations of Federal Reserve rate cuts in the first half of the year," said Ricardo Evangelista, senior analyst at ActivTrades.The U.S. employment data could potentially either affirm the recent hawkish Fed stance, advocating for sustained higher rates, or alter that trajectory, reigniting expectations of an initial rate cut in June, Evangelista added.
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 06:10 PM IST with headline  India's forex kitty jumps $2.95 billion to new all-time high of $645.58 billion is: 
 India's forex kitty jumps $2.95 billion to new all-time high of $645.58 billion India's foreign exchange reserves increased USD 2.951 billion to USD 645.583 billion for the week ended March 29, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said on Friday.This is the sixth consecutive week of a jump in overall reserves. The kitty had increased USD 140 million to USD 642.631 billion in the previous reporting week.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe country's forex kitty had in September 2021 reached an all-time high of USD 642.453 billion. The reserves took a hit as the central bank deployed the kitty to defend the rupee amid pressures caused majorly by global developments since last year.For the week ended March 29, the foreign currency assets, a major component of the reserves, increased USD 2.354 billion to USD 570.618 billion, data released on Friday showed.Expressed in dollar terms, the foreign currency assets include the effect of appreciation or depreciation of non-US units like the euro, pound, and yen held in the foreign exchange reserves.Gold reserves increased USD 673 million to USD 52.16 billion during the week, the RBI said.The Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) were down USD 73 million to USD 18.145 billion, the apex bank said.India's reserve position with the IMF was also down USD 2 million to USD 4.66 billion in the reporting week, the apex bank data showed. PTI AA TRBStory continues below Advertisemen
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 06:05 PM IST with headline  Dollar stirred up by geopolitics, pre-jobs jitters is: 
 Dollar stirred up by geopolitics, pre-jobs jitters The dollar headed for its first weekly loss in a month on Friday, but pulled away from two-week lows, ahead of a key U.S. jobs report later in the day, while tensions in the Middle East kept investors on edge.Demand for safe-haven currencies, along with more warnings from Japanese authorities, helped send the yen to two-week highs against the dollar.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdInvestors are wary of developments in the Middle East after U.S. President Joe Biden threatened on Thursday to condition support for Israel's offensive in Gaza on it taking concrete steps to protect aid workers and civilians.The dollar has had a turbulent week, falling from a five-month high to a two-week low after an unexpected slowdown in U.S. services growth supported expectations of the Federal Reserve bringing interest rates down.It then rebounded after comments on Thursday from Minneapolis Federal Reserve President Neel Kashkari, who is not a voter on this year's policy-setting committee, that rate cuts might not be required this year if inflation continues to stall.
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 05:13 PM IST with headline  Business in the Week Ahead (April 8-12, 2024) is: 
 India is keeping a premium when it comes to market valuation. Will this trend gain further momentum? It’s a script that was more or less known. A central bank that is known to play its cards with ample care, the RBI chose not to upset the applecart by keeping the policy rate steady at 6.5 percent. It’s mindful of the fact that core inflation is in decline, but didn’t want to lower its guard against any nasty surprise on the seasonal food inflation front.When is the pivot coming then? Well, that depends on th
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 04:53 PM IST with headline  The Trump tax cuts were neither panacea nor rip-off is: 
 Teasing out precisely what effect the Trump tax cuts had on a particular company’s investment decisions requires a deep dive into financial and tax records. Back in 2017, the debate around President Donald Trump’s tax cuts was a case study in how quickly a discussion around legitimate policy can descend into partisan nonsense. On one side, Republicans spouted unfounded claims that the tax cuts would pay for themselves. On the other, Democrats spouted equally unfounded claims that only big business and the wealthy would benefit.As usual, the truth landed somewhere in the middle. No, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 didn’t pay for itself but at this moment reversing the marquee part of the legislation - lower tax rates for companies — to help narrow the bulging budget deficit is the last thing we should do. And while the cuts yielded benefits to Americans up and down the income scale, the benefits could best be described as modest.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdUnderstanding what the legislation did and didn’t do is relevant now because they expire in 2025, and whoever wins this year’s presidential election will have to decide whether to extend them. What’s not in dispute is that the act represented the most sweeping overhaul the tax system since the Reagan administration. For businesses, it aimed to spur capital spending by slashing the corporate tax from 35 percent to 21 percent. For individuals, it lowered rates across the board and simplified the code by limiting itemised deductions, increasing the standard deduction taken by those who don’t itemise and expanding access to the child tax credit.The problem now is that largely because of fiscal spending to support the economy through the pandemic, the federal budget deficit has expanded to 6.44 percent of gross domestic product from 4.67 percent at the end of 2019, which at the time was the biggest shortfall since 2013. Also, the cost of servicing the deficit by borrowing has soared along with benchmark interest rates the last two years. For this reason alone, it’s possible some, but not all, the cuts will reversed. But which ones? Whatever is decided, the corporate cuts are probably the last thing we want to repeal.Despite the insistence of Republicans, who point to the rise in federal revenue following 2017, we can’t shrink the deficit by further reducing taxes. In 2022, federal revenue came in at $4.9 trillion, far higher than the $4.2 trillion predicted by the bi-partisan Congressional Budget Officebefore the tax cuts. Two factors are responsible for the outperformance. One, capital gains tax revenue jumped following the stock market’s big rally in 2020 and 2021. Two, a worker shortage during the pandemic caused wages to rise by almost 5 percent over the course of 2021. Higher wages not only led to higher incomes but also pushed many Americans into higher tax brackets, thereby increasing revenue.
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 04:18 PM IST with headline  The Reading List: April 5, 2024 is: 
 A selection of articles and social media gems curated by our research and opinion teams. In a world strapped for time, we thought you may find it useful to have a selection of articles we read this past week. As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. Occasionally, we may stray from these subjects.These links may be from external websites we frequen
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 04:06 PM IST with headline  Rupee ends higher on foreign, state-run banks' dollar sales; rises on week is: 
 Rupee ends higher on foreign, state-run banks' dollar sales; rises on week The Indian rupee rose on Friday, bolstered by dollar sales from foreign and state-run banks and after the Indian central bank kept rates unchanged for a seventh consecutive meeting.The rupee closed at 83.2950 against the U.S dollar, up nearly 0.2% compared with its close of 83.4375 in the previous session.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe currency logged a gain of 0.1% week-on-week, rebounding from a record low of 83.4550 hit on Thursday.Dollar sales picked up after the rupee managed to hold above 83.45 despite a raft of weak global cues, a FX trader at a foreign bank said.Brent crude oil prices rising above $90 per barrel for the first time since October and hawkish comments from Federal Reserve policymakers weighed early in the session.
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 04:00 PM IST with headline  Strong growth momentum, bright outlook keep MPC focused on price stability is: 
 Over the course of the year, if the baseline growth and inflation forecast trajectories materialize, without any significant deviations caused by the risks, then room will open up for the MPC to shift to a neutral stance and cut rates HighlightsThe RBI reiterated its baseline real GDP growth forecast of 7% for FY2024-25Baseline average CPI inflation forecast was revised marginally lower to 4.5% for the yearThe room for monetary easing in FY25 is limited, as the Monetary Policy Report projects the inflation target of 4% may only be achieved in the next fiscal yearRBI Governor Das said that high and persistent food inflation can unhinge otherwise anchored household inflation expectationsPrivate consumptio
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 02:54 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | RBI Monetary Policy: The elephant has left the room is: 
 RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFor central bankers, price stability is a dream come true and they would do anything to make that happen. If you were Jerome Powell, Chairman of the US Federal Reserve, you would coerce, cajole, and confuse the markets until you achieve price stability -- the Fed’s tactical game right now is to keep markets guessing aka confuse.But for Shaktikanta Das, Governor of the Reserve Bank of India, the final fight to bring inflation down to the desired 4 percent is turning out to be easier than thought. For starters, the RBI has projected the headline consumer price index inflation to be 4.5 percent for FY25, just a shade higher than the desired target. It has also projected gross domestic product (GDP) growth to be 7 percent. Had it not been an inflation targeting central bank, this combination of low inflation and reasonable growth would have already made the RBI cut policy rates to bring back the economy to that coveted potential growth rate -- which now is agreed to be 8 percent.For now, Das is content with using a pachyderm as a metaphor for inflation. “Two years ago, around this time, when CPI inflation had peaked at 7.8 percent in April 2022, the elephant in the room was inflation. The elephant has now gone out for a walk and appears to be returning to the forest. We would like the elephant to return to the forest and remain there on a durable basis,” Das said in his statement today.
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 01:48 PM IST with headline  Rate cut cycle of RBI likely to be shallower than those of global central banks: Unmesh Kulkarni of Julius Baer India is: 
 Reserve Bank of India By Unmesh Kulkarni, managing director senior advisor at Julius Baer IndiaThe RBI monetary policy announcement was completely on expected lines. Almost the entire market was expecting a status quo on policy rates, and RBI did just that. There were some expectations building that RBI would start signaling a softening of its policy stance, however the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) voted with a clear majority of 5:1 to continue with the “withdrawal of accommodation” stance.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn the MPC’s assessment, the growth-inflation dynamics has played out favorably, and the policy actions seem to be having the desired impact on bringing inflation down, while supporting growth.RBI finds the current growth conditions quite favourable, primarily driven by industrial and manufacturing activity, along with buoyant services and urban consumption, and a recovering rural economy. The prospects for investment activity remain bright, fueled by rising capacity utilisation, improving business confidence, an upturn in private capex cycle, robust government expenditure and healthy corporate balance sheets. The RBI MPC’s forecast for GDP growth is largely unchanged (7 percent in FY25), with some minor tweaks in the quarterly numbers.The MPC is quite satisfied that the inflation prints, especially the core CPI, have been on a downward trajectory. However, the Governor emphasised that there is considerable uncertainty around the food inflation trajectory, although healthy rabi production should alleviate conditions and a likely early monsoon should augur well for the kharif crop.
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 01:36 PM IST with headline  RBI to undertake study after May to assess India’s potential growth is: 
 RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will undertake a study to assess India’s potential growth and real growth rate after the estimate of national income for 2023-24 is released at the end of May, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said on Friday.“We will undertake a study after the final GDP numbers for the year 2023-24 are released at the end of May. We will undertake a state study to assess the potential growth and the real growth rate and maybe thereafter we can sort of provide some additional information,” Das said at a press briefing post the monetary policy.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe provisional estimates of national income for 2023-24 will be released on May 31. “When the average growth over a three year period is 8 percent. Naturally, our potential growth also appears to have grown and gone up. So, therefore, the potential growth and the real rate have to be seen in that context,” Das said.Going by the National Statistical Office (NSO) forecast of 7.6 percent growth for the year 2023-24, the average for the three years 2021-22, 2022-23 and 2023-24 will work out at about 8 percent.The monetary policy committee kept the estimates of GDP growth for the year 2024-25 unchanged at 7 percent. FY25 will be the fourth consecutive year of 7 percent and above growth.
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 02:16 PM IST with headline  Eight percent growth projection for India not ours: IMF is: 
 Eight percent growth projection for India not ours: IMF The recent remarks of Krishnamurthy Subramanian, Executive Director at the International Monetary Fund, about India's growth figures does not represent the views of the IMF and were in his role as India's representative at the global body, the IMF has said."The views conveyed ...by Mr. Subramanian were in his role as India's representative at the IMF," Julie Kozack, IMF spokesperson, told reporters here on Thursday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdShe was responding to a question on recent remarks by Subramanian, in which he projected a growth rate of 8 per cent for India, which is different from the last growth rate projections by the IMF.Subramanian, at a event in New Delhi on March 28, had said Indian economy could grow at 8 per cent till 2047, if the country redoubles the good policies that it has implemented over the last 10 years and accelerate reforms."So, the basic idea is that with the kind of growth that India has registered in the last 10 years, if we can redouble the good policies that we have implemented over the last 10 years and accelerate the reforms, then India can grow at 8 per cent from here on till 2047," he had said.
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 12:28 PM IST with headline  RBI MPC Highlights: Here are the key takeaways
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 02:17 PM IST with headline  India to stop importing urea by 2025 end: Mansukh Mandaviya is: 
 India to stop importing urea by 2025 end: Mansukh Mandaviya India will by the end of 2025 stop importing urea as a massive push for domestic manufacturing has helped bridge the gap between supply and demand, Chemicals and Fertilisers Minister Mansukh Mandaviya has said.In an interaction with PTI, the minister noted that the availability of fertilisers is very important for Indian agriculture.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHe said the country has been using chemical fertilisers for the last 60-65 years to enhance crop production.Now, Mandaviya said, the government is making efforts to promote alternate fertilisers like nano liquid urea and nano liquid di-ammonium phosphate (DAP)."Use of alternate fertilisers is good for crops and soil health. We are promoting it," he said.
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 11:28 AM IST with headline  What the BJP and other political parties need to take away from the India Skills Report is: 
 The overall workforce employability rate has risen to 52.3 percent in the decade of Modi Sarkar HighlightsIndian Skills report in 2014 showed just 34 percent of fresh graduates were employableUnder BJP-NDA, employability has risen to 52.3 percent among graduatesTelangana, Kerala, Maharashtra lead the employability score for 18-21 age groupEmployability in different age groups throw up different states as leadersJobseekers have voted for acquiring English skills as against political agenda to push state languagesStates with improved employability scores do not have employment opportunitiesThe India Skills Report, an annual assessment of employability of young jo
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 02:03 PM IST with headline  Centre aims 7-fold jump in wheat procurement from UP, Rajasthan, Bihar this year is: 
 Centre aims 7-fold jump in wheat procurement from UP, Rajasthan, Bihar this year Amid the heat of the ongoing Lok Sabha electioneering, the Centre has announced plans to significantly increase wheat purchase from non-traditional states of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Bihar and set a target of seven-fold jump in procurement to 50 lakh tonnes in the ongoing 2024-25 marketing year.Further, even as the ban on outbound shipments of wheat continues, "it will be a dream for us to export now", Food Secretary Sanjeev Chopra told reporters on Thursday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"UP, Bihar, and Rajasthan have been contributing much less than they could have. We are targeting total wheat procurement of 310 lakh tonne this year. Of which, we are hoping to procure at least 50 lakh tonne from three non-traditional procurement states alone," he said.While Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Bihar put together contributed only 6.7 lakh tonnes to the central pool during the 2023-24 marketing year (April-March), the Union Food Ministry has decided to procure 16 per cent of the total wheat procurement target of 310 lakh tonne set for 2024-25.Wheat procurement at minimum support price (MSP) is normally undertaken by the Centre's nodal agency Food Corporation of India (FCI) and state agencies. However, cooperatives Nafed and NCCF have also been roped in with a procurement target of 5 lakh each this year.
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 10:17 AM IST with headline  No proposal to resume sale of subsidised rice for ethanol production: Food secretary is: 
 No proposal to resume sale of subsidised rice for ethanol production: Food secretary The government has no proposal to resume sale of subsidised rice to grain-based distilleries for the production of ethanol, Food Secretary Sanjeev Chopra said."Since July last year, rice has not been diverted for ethanol production. There is no proposal as of now to revisit that policy," Chopra told reporters on Thursday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHe was responding to questions on whether the government plans to resume the sale of subsidised rice for ethanol in the near future amid reports of likely fall in sugar production in the 2024-25 season (October-September).The rice sale for ethanol makers was discontinued for various reasons, including apprehensions about domestic output and high retail prices, and economic unviability, he said.On the impact on investments on grain-based distilleries, Chopra said, "This is not a policy which is cast in stone. This policy will be renewed... Maize is being encouraged for ethanol production." As of now, there is a huge jump in ethanol made from maize. About 50 crore litres of ethanol made from maize has been supplied in the 2024-25 supply year, he said.
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 09:07 AM IST with headline  Free market or investor protection, what will serve India’s F&O traders better? is: 
 Retail participation in Indian F&O markets had jumped more than six-fold from 7.1 lakh in FY19 to 45.2 lakh in FY22. India’s derivatives market has undergone a systemic shift after the pandemic. The average daily turnover in India’s F&O segment has seen a tremendous jump from less than Rs 10 lakh crore in FY19 to more than Rs 300 lakh crore in FY24. Almost all of this increase has come from retail investors. had jumped more than six-fold from 7.1 lakh in FY19 to 45.2 lakh in FY22. The numbers hav
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 08:45 AM IST with headline  Green shoots in rural demand? is: 
 Comments on the Jan-March 2024 quarter results by company managements will soon tell us whether the rural turnaround is for real We’ve heard a lot about problems in rural demand and one indicator that is often cited in this regard is stagnation in real rural wages. Companies, especially FMCG firms, have also complained about low rural demand. Recently, however, reports have been seen about a turnaround in rural consumption. , for instance, talks about rural demand improving on the back of construction and real estate activity. Some reports say that volume growth in rural market
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 08:47 AM IST with headline  Personal Finance: Four financial rules that you should not take seriously is: 
 All money is decent enough to make a start– whether it is small or large On April Fool’s Day (which was on Monday), a friend posted on a group the performance of a few public sector banks that delivered absolute returns above 300 per cent over a period of four years.Why four years? Because the market slumped abysmally in the end-March to mid-April 2020 period when the pandemic hit. The banks that delivered absolute returns above 300 per cent were led by Canara Bank at 610 per cent and Bank of Indi
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 08:28 AM IST with headline  Chart of the Day: Competition queers the pitch for policy transmission by banks is: 
 Competition is making transmission tricky The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) began the current rate hike cycle in May 2022 when it first hiked its repo rate by 40 basis points (bps). A basis point is one hundredth of a percentage point. When policy rates are hiked, banks are expected to transmit the same onto their lending and deposit rates. Simply put, monetary policy’s effect depends on how much of the policy rate changes are passed on to borrowers and savers. Sinc
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 01:45 PM IST with headline  RBI MPC Meet Highlights: Shaktikanta Das announces key rates unchanged; GDP growth forecast retained, CPI inflation revised for Q1 and Q2 for FY25
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 09:54 PM IST with headline  CBDT enables ITR filing for FY24; 23,000 returns filed in 4 days is: 
 This is for the first time in recent years that the Income Tax department has enabled taxpayers to file their I-T Returns on the first day of the new financial year The Income Tax department on Thursday said ITRs 1, 2, 4 and 6 have been made available on e-filing portal from April 1, 2024, and about 23,000 returns have already been filed for the 2023-24 fiscal year.This is for the first time in recent years that the Income Tax department has enabled taxpayers to file their I-T Returns on the first day of the new financial year and, is a step towards ease of compliance and seamless taxpayer services.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdITR Form 1 (Sahaj) and ITR Form 4 (Sugam) are simpler forms that cater to a large number of small and medium taxpayers. ITR-2 is filed by people having income from residential property).In a statement, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said it has facilitated taxpayers to file their Income Tax Returns (ITRs) for the 2024-25 Assessment Year (relevant to Financial Year 2023-24) from April 1, 2024.“The ITRs — i.e. ITR-1, ITR-2 and ITR-4 — commonly used by taxpayers are available on the e-filing portal from April 1, 2024 onwards for taxpayers to file their returns. Companies will also be able to file their ITRs through ITR-6 from April 1 onwards,” the CBDT said.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 09:17 PM IST with headline  US trade deficit widens in February on strong imports is: 
 The trade deficit increased 1.9% to $68.9 billion, the Commerce Department's Bureau of Economic Analysis said The U.S. trade deficit widened for a second straight month in February as an increase in exports to a record high was offset by surging imports, suggesting trade could be a drag on economic growth in the first quarter.The trade deficit increased 1.9% to $68.9 billion, the Commerce Department's Bureau of Economic Analysis said on Thursday. Data for January was revised slightly to show the trade gap rising to $67.6 billion instead of $67.4 billion as previously reported. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast the deficit little changed at $67.3 billion in February.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhen adjusted for inflation, the goods trade deficit increased 1.2% to $87.0 billion in February.Most of the imported goods likely ended up as inventories, which could offset the anticipated hit on gross domestic product from the widening trade gap.Trade added 0.25 percentage point to the economy's 3.4% annualized growth rate in the fourth quarter after being neutral for two straight quarters. Growth estimates for the first quarter are currently as high as a 2.8% pace.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 06:57 PM IST with headline  US weekly jobless claims increase more than expected is: 
 Initial claims for state unemployment benefits rose 9,000 to a seasonally adjusted 221,000 for the week ended March 30, the Labor Department said on Thursda The number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits increased more than expected last week as labor market conditions gradually ease.Initial claims for state unemployment benefits rose 9,000 to a seasonally adjusted 221,000 for the week ended March 30, the Labor Department said on Thursday. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast 214,000 claims in the latest week.Claims had bounced around between 212,000 and 210,000 for much of March. There were 1.36 job openings for every unemployed person in February compared to 1.43 in January, government data showed this week.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWorker shortages persist in industries like construction.Though layoffs increased to a 14-month high in March, job cuts were little changed compared to the same period last year.Labor market resilience is anchoring the economy, with gross domestic product increasing at a brisk 3.4% annualized rate in the fourth quarter. Growth estimates for the first quarter are as high as a 2.8% pace. That strength, combined with still-high inflation, could see the Federal Reserve delaying a much anticipated interest rate cut this year.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 08:59 PM IST with headline  The US Fed is wrong about how low interest rates will go is: 
 While the Fed’s projections for 2024 look likely to be more accurate than the market’s at the start of the year, this time around it’s the central bank, not the market, that will probably have to adjust. Financial markets and the US Federal Reserve remain in disagreement on a subject crucial to asset prices and economic growth: how low interest rates will eventually go.Betting against the Fed is a fraught endeavour. Nonetheless, in this case I think the market is right.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMarkets and the Fed now agree about 2024: Futures prices are consistent with officials’ median estimate of 75 basis points of cuts in the federal funds rate. Yet forecasts for the next few years diverge. Futures indicate that short-term interest rates will bottom out at about 3.75 percent in 2027, while the median forecast among members of the policy-making Federal Open Market Committee is 2.6 percent — more than 100 basis points lower.Why the difference? I see two reasons. First, market participants expect average inflation to be higher than the Fed’s 2 percent target. This makes sense, because the target is asymmetric: The central bank is committed to offsetting downside misses with comparable misses to the upside, but not the other way around. Chair Jerome Powell never talks about pushing inflation below 2 percent to offset the high readings of recent years, and official projections don’t indicate any such intention. As a result, average inflation should exceed 2 percent. The greater the volatility of inflation over time, the larger the divergence should be.Second, the market appears to have a higher estimate of the neutral federal funds rate — the level, known as r*, that neither stimulates nor restrains growth. Various developments support this. For one, the economy has remained strong even as the Fed has increased its target rate by 525 basis points, suggesting that the current level of 5.25 percent to 5.50 percent might not be as restrictive as officials expected. Increased productivity growth, together with the AI boom, should stimulate greater investment and hence nudge equilibrium interest rates upward. Declining savings push in the same direction: The federal government is running vast budget deficits, while soaring asset prices have boosted household wealth, leading the personal savings rate to decline to 3.6 percent of disposable income, from an average of 5.7 percent in the decade following the 2008 financial crisis.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 04:32 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Rising oil prices will be a headache for the MPC is: 
 According to industry veterans, if oil price continues to rise, it may impact the marketing margins of oil marketing companies. Dear Readers,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Crude oil is sizzling in international markets. From the lows of $72-73 per barrel in early 2023, Brent crude oil price touched $89.6 in April, scaling this level for the second time in 12 months.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe reasons are many, from concerns of disruption in crude supplies due to geopolitical risks in the Middle-East and the Russia-Ukraine region, the protracted Red Sea crisis and low US inventory, to elevated global demand on the back of strong US jobs and factory orders data, signs of China’s growth limping back and an overall expansion in the global economy that indicates improved energy demand.Even if oil prices stay sticky at current levels, other things being constant, these reasons would surely cap downsides. The near $20 dollar per barrel (in a year) rise in international crude oil prices in a year is bound to have cost implications for most countries, albeit in varying degrees.Surging oil prices are a negative for India. It signals energy-led inflation, given that it imports about 85 per cent of its crude oil requirement. In other words, it impacts almost all sectors of the economy. This is more pertinent against the backdrop of a robust domestic economy that, according to analysts, is far larger than it was in 2008 or 2013-14.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 04:32 PM IST with headline  UK on track to exit recession despite slower services growth, PMI data shows is: 
 The S&P Global Composite Purchasing Managers’ Index – which covers private-sector services and manufacturing firms – edged down to 52.8 in March from February’s 53.0 (Photo-Bloomberg) Britain's economy looks on track to exit recession when official first-quarter growth data is next published, despite a slowdown in services activity last month, a closely watched business survey showed on Thursday.The S&P Global Composite Purchasing Managers' Index - which covers private-sector services and manufacturing firms - edged down to 52.8 for Britain in March from February's 53.0.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThis was just below a provisional reading of 52.9 but above the 50 level that divides growth from contraction for a fifth consecutive month.The survey showed British businesses faring better than peers in France and Germany - where activity contracted - but lagging behind expansions in Italy and Spain."The solid growth rate achieved in March reinforces the view that a rebound in service sector performance is helping the UK economy to pull out of last year's shallow recession," Tim Moore, S&P Global's economics director, said.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 03:58 PM IST with headline  Veg thali gets dearer by 7% in March on onion, tomato price surge: Crisil is: 
 The cost of a vegetable thali -- comprising roti, vegetables (onions, tomatoes and potatoes), rice, dal, curd and salad -- increased to Rs 27.3 per plate in March from Rs 25.5 in the year-ago period The cost of a vegetarian thali became dearer by 7 per cent in March primarily due to the rise in onion, tomato, and potato prices, an arm of domestic rating agency Crisil said on Thursday. A cool down in poultry prices led to a 7 per cent decline in non-vegetarian thali, Crisil Market Intelligence and Analysis said in its monthly ”Roti Rice Rate” report.The cost of a vegetable thali — comprising roti, vegetables (onions, tomatoes and potatoes), rice, dal, curd and salad — increased to Rs 27.3 per plate in March from Rs 25.5 in the year-ago period, but was cheaper than Rs 27.4 in February 2024, it said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"The cost of the veg thali increased due to a surge of 40 per cent, 36 per cent and 22 per cent on-year in prices of onion, tomato and potato, respectively, due to lower arrivals of onion and potato and low base of last fiscal for tomatoes,” the report said. ”The cost of the veg thali increased due to a surge of 40 per cent, 36 per cent and 22 per cent on-year in prices of onion, tomato and potato, respectively, due to lower arrivals of onion and potato and low base of last fiscal for tomatoes,” the report said.The report also noted that due to lower arrivals, prices of rice increased 14 per cent and pulses by 22 per cent when compared to the year-ago period. In the case of non-veg thali, in which only dal gets replaced by chicken, the price declined to Rs 54.9 as against Rs 59.2 in the year-ago period, but was higher when compared with Rs 54 per thali in preceding February.In the case of non-veg thali, in which only dal gets replaced by chicken, the price declined to Rs 54.9 as against Rs 59.2 in the year-ago period, but was higher when compared with Rs 54 per thali in preceding February.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 07:11 PM IST with headline  American exceptionalism on display in the bond market is: 
 The US economy is on a healthier endogenous growth path compared with Europe. Many of us have our favorite economic and financial indicators. I’m referring to those indicators that don’t get a lot - if any - attention from the television channels geared toward finance and markets and yet can provide important insights. One of my favorites - the divergence between key US and German fixed-income benchmarks - is at a notable level.More specifically, I’m talking about the difference between the yield on the 10-year US Treasury note and its counterpart in Germany (which also serves as a benchmark for much of Europe). In early trading Wednesday, this differential had risen to 200 basis points in favor of the US, a level only reached three times since the start of 2020. Moreover, and as shown in the chart below, it is now well above the low over the past three years of 90 basis points and just short of the high of 214 basis points.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTwo major developments have driven the recent widening. One is that US economic data overall has been stronger than consensus forecasts. The other is lower-than-expected euro zone inflation data.Fundamentally, the widening captures the dominance of American economic exceptionalism over European economic stagnation, illustrated most comprehensively by the contrast between 4% growth in US gross domestic product in the second half of 2024 and recession in Germany. With that comes a divergence in inflation rates, with US price increases proving more stubborn than Europe’s in what many view as the “last mile” in central banks’ battle against inflation.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 04:33 PM IST with headline  Exporters unable to leverage rupee depreciation to boost export order value: Industry is: 
 The rupee may stay under pressure in the near term. Despite the rupee hovering around 83.40 to the dollar, exporters are not able to leverage the price competitiveness to boost exports due to a paucity of foreign exchange with India’s major export destinations, stakeholders said.“There is a forex crisis in Bangladesh, the biggest trading partner with India for engineering goods. There is a tremendous dollar shortage in that country. Exports are not growing to Bangladesh, on the contrary its gone down. We are exporting to Latin America, African countries, they all have a problem of foreign exchange. It affects our exports, we are not able to grow exports substantially,” Arun Kumar Garodia, chairman, Engineering Exports Promotion Council of India (EEPC India), told Moneycontrol.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndia’s engineering exports in the five months to February rose by only 2 percent, he said.“Countries like Zambia, Kenya, Tanzania, Mozambique, Nigeria, Angola and Latin America are facing dollar unavailability. Exporters are facing huge cash flow challenges, the major issue being the availability of foreign currency in these countries,” Sandeep Modi, joint secretary, Federation of Pharmaceutical and Allied Products Merchant Exporters (FPME), told Moneycontrol.The cause of the dollar shortage in these countries can be traced back to their balance of payments deteriorating.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 04:33 PM IST with headline  Rupee exhibits signs of stability, here are some factors contributing to it is: 
 The volatility of the US dollar on the one hand and the compulsion to hold dollar reserves on the other, have hurt them. After several decades of continuous decline, the rupee has started to stabilise in the year 2023-24, especially, in its third and fourth quarters. It is worth noting that in the first two quarters of the year 2023-24, the rupee depreciated by only 1.0 percent against the dollar. But in the last two quarters of this financial year, the rupee-dollar exchange rate stabilised at around Rs 83.0 per dollar.We see that the value of the rupee has been continuously falling since the 1980s, since our country moved from the administered exchange rate system to the market determined exchange rate. It is worth mentioning that the rupee-dollar exchange rate moved from Rs 9.46 per US dollar in 1982 to Rs 82.17 per US dollar on March 31, 2023. This means that from 1982 to March 2023, the rupee has depreciated by 868.6 percent, at the rate of 5.41 percent per annum in the last 41 years. This has happened due to the rapidly increasing imports in the country, with exports growing at a much slower pace.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdCurrent Account: No More In DeficitThis year, we witnessed a significant increase in exports of goods and services. The current account deficit has narrowed to just $28 billion in the first three quarters of FY23-24, which is less than 1 percent of India’s GDP. This deficit has turned into a surplus in the first two months of the fourth quarter, riding on shrinking deficit on merchandise trade and widening surplus on services trade. If this trend continues, the current account deficit for the full year could shrink to around $30, which could be much less than 1 percent of GDP, much lower than the current account deficit of FY23 ($66 billion, nearly 2 percent of GDP).Foreign direct investment, though slightly lower in the first three quarters of FY24, compared to corresponding period in 2022-23, is more than offset by an increase in remittances from people of Indian origin. Similarly, despite rising unemployment in the US and Europe, remittances from Indian-origin people continued to rise unabated, and are expected to reach $135 billion in 2023-24 compared to $125 billion in 2022-23.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 12:16 PM IST with headline  Final Composite PMI for March even better than the advance estimate is: 
 The MPC will also have to take the outlook for inflation into account as a result of the strong growth The accompanying chart, which captures India Purchasing Managers Indices (PMIs) for manufacturing, services and composite PMI for the last two quarters, says it all. The final composite PMI for India for March came in at 61.8, even better than the Flash PMI of 61.3, which was based on 80-90 percent of survey responses for the month.(image) The March PMI, , shows growth accelerating. In fact, the survey says private secto
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 11:33 AM IST with headline  Diverging inflation raises prospect of rate cuts by ECB before Fed is: 
 Fed chair Jay Powell signalled in a speech on Wednesday that stubbornly high US inflation may keep the central bank from cutting rates as quickly as previously thought Martin Arnold in Frankfurt, Valentina Romei in London and James Politi in WashingtonInflation is falling faster than forecast in Europe while exceeding expectations in the US, prompting investors to predict the European Central Bank could cut interest rates earlier than the Federal Reserve.Eurozone inflation dropped to 2.4 per cent in the year to March, the fourth straight monthly fall and the latest evidence that prices are edging tantalisingly close to the ECB’s 2 per cent target.In contrast
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 11:18 AM IST with headline  How you can avoid getting lost in the land of the Titans is: 
 It has seemed mad to invest in anything but the biggest stocks in the past — and it might seem mad now too. In the beginning, fund managers didn’t worry about competition. In those happier times, the first big collective vehicles aimed at retail investors in the UK bought portfolios of 25 or so stocks, mostly with an income bias (the tastes of British investors have not changed), and typical managers did nothing but maintain the portfolio in “an administrative capacity,” says Nigel Morecraft in Towering Investors: The Origins of Asset Management from 1700 to 1960. They bought and they waited — mostly without much reference to what anyone else did. These professionals knew nothing of benchmarks. Their aim was to do better than inflation, cash or government bonds. Not so for the modern version, who is no longer allowed to think in absolutes or for the long haul. Instead, he must think only in terms of performance relative to one of the many indices to which his performance is benchmarked — over no more than five years.That’s a terrible shame. That’s partly because relative performance is not what the average punter cares about: Our first hope is always that we not lose money, not that we lose less than a spreadsheet. It also puts the focus in the wrong place. If your main aim is not to do worse than an index (there are no bonuses in that!), something that tempts you to replicate much of the index in your portfolio, you will also find it hard to do better than that index. And sometimes you will find it harder than other times.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdNow is one of those times, thanks in large part to the extraordinary dominance of megacap stocks in global markets, in the US in particular. Over the past 12 months the Dow Jones Global Titans index (the biggest 50 companies in the world) is up about 35 percent. The MSCI World Index (which is market-cap weighted and so biased toward the Titans) is up 21 percent. The equal-weighted version of the world index is up about 14 percent.The biggest companies have been the only real out-performers and hence the thing to beat. Almost no one has managed it. Look over the last decade, says fund manager GMO and 90 percent of large-cap blend managers have underperformed the S&P 500 Index. Horrible. Look to the actively managed funds in the UK (of all types) says Alex Paget at fund-management firm Downing: 2.5 percent of them have outperformed the Titans in the last 12 months. The few that have made the grade have almost all had a US, growth and technology bias and have been overweight the biggest stocks out there.The MSCI World index comprises a weighting of 3.4 percent Nvidia Corp., for example. The average outperforming fund has been 5.33 percent Nvidia, according to research from Downing. The only way to outperform has been to take a massive bet on megacap exceptionalism and to hold the giants in higher weightings than they already hold in historically concentrated indices.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 02:12 PM IST with headline  Modi must create more factory jobs for India to grow is: 
 Job growth hasn’t even come close to keeping up with population growth during his decade in office. (Representational image) India’s election campaign has officially begun. Few expect Prime Minister Narendra Modi to be unseated by the time it concludes. Yet, objectively, he should be in a lot more trouble electorally than he is.India’s working-age population swells by perhaps eight million a month. Modi’s biggest promise to India’s young and restless voters when he first ran for nationwide office, 10 years ago, was to vastly expand employment opportunities.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdInstead, job growth hasn’t even come close to keeping up with population growth during his decade in office. The most respected independent survey of India’s workforce concluded last year that youth unemployment topped 45 percent.The problem goes beyond India, of course. A report released by the World Bank last week worried that South Asia only created about 10 million a jobs a year over recent decades, even as the number of potential workers was growing by 19 million a year. The proportion of the working-age population in the region who are employed has declined since 2000 — the only slice of the developing world where that happened.Still, India’s problems are particularly acute. Last week, a major new study from the International Labor Organization pointed out that the standard structural transition seen in most developing economies, in which agriculture slowly loses workers to more productive sectors such as manufacturing and services, “reversed after 2019, with a substantial rise in agricultural employment.” The report added, dryly, that this trend was “rather unique” for lower-middle-income countries.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 09:48 AM IST with headline  The hunt for critical minerals — A daunting drill is: 
 Representative image HighlightsThe auction of 13 of the 20 critical minerals blocks scrappedThere was no bidder for two lithium blocks in J&KFor 11 blocks, there were less than three biddersThere seems to be lack of clarity on data on the reservesGlobal collaborations, along with due diligence of local mines, neededOnly a pragmatic critical mineral policy can ensure India’s smooth transition to a low-carbon economyIndia’s quest for self-sufficiency in critical minerals is facing challenging times. In less than four month
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 08:48 AM IST with headline  Share of informal employment is rising, it's a worrying trend is: 
 - The government’s Periodic Labour Force Surveys (PLFS) show a rise in the share of informal employment over the last few years. The PLF surveys define informal employment thus: “According to the 15th ICLS conceptual framework, unincorporated enterprises owned by households, (i.e., proprietary and partnership enterprises including the informal producers’ cooperatives) are largely considered as informal sector enterprises. In PLFS, proprietary and partnership enterprises are considered as informal sector enterprises.” The chart shows the share of workers i
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 08:29 AM IST with headline  South Asia has a 'Jobless Development' problem, says World Bank is: 
 Working-age population shares are expected to peak in the early 2030s in Bangladesh, Bhutan, and India HighlightsWorld Bank report says South Asia’s growth is joblessBetween 2000 and 2023, employment in the region grew by 1.7 percent a year and the working-age population expanded by 1.9 percent a yearNot only is the employment ratio low in South Asia compared to other developing economies, but it has also declined during 2000-23 for IndiaSouth Asia’s employment ratio is low because of two main reasons---low employment ratios for women and employment weakness in the non-agriculture sectorsIndia’s femal
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 09:56 AM IST with headline  India aims to expand seafood exports to $12 billion in two years is: 
 India aims to expand seafood exports to $12 billion in two years India is aiming to expand its seafood exports to around $12 billion in the next two years from $8 billion currently, mainly by focusing on high-end markets including the United States and Europe, two government officials said on Wednesday.India has emerged as the biggest supplier of seafood, particularly frozen shrimps, to the United States, with exports doubling over eight years to $2.6 billion in 2022/23, one of the officials at the Commerce Ministry told a small group of reporters.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTotal frozen shrimp exports topped $5.6 billion in 2022/23, according to commerce ministry estimates."The government intends to focus on value addition and supply to high-end markets while creating awareness about good labour and environment practices among exporters," the officials said.Shrimp farming has emerged as a big opportunity for nearly 200,000 workers, mainly women in the Southern states of Andhra Pradesh, the second official said, noting, however, that global demand could remain weak this fiscal year.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 02:21 AM IST with headline  ECB should put rate cuts on this month’s agenda is: 
 The ECB’s mandate to keep inflation at or near 2 percent, but it also is responsible for maintaining financial stability. Inflation in the euro zone may not be decelerating as rapidly as it did last year, but that shouldn’t deter the European Central Bank from following the Swiss National Bank’s lead in cutting rates. With Tuesday’s numbers showing German consumer prices increased by just 2.3 percent last month and Wednesday’s figures for the bloc showing a bigger-than-expected slowdown to 2.4 percent from February’s 2.6 percent pace, the evidence is compelling that inflation is beaten; unfortunately, so is the economy.That’s why policymakers who’ve made it plain they’re minded to cut borrowing costs in June should be emboldened to strike earlier, by introducing their first 25 basis-point reduction in official interest rates at next week’s Thursday meeting. There’s a particularly long gap of 39 business days between April 11 and the June 6 meeting; staying on hold next week could mean an agonizing wait as worsening economic data keep trundling in.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMarch’s core inflation measure declined to 2.9 percent from 3.1 percent in February. Services inflation in the euro zone, as is the case elsewhere, is proving sticky; it was slower to rise, so unsurprisingly it’s also last to fall back and came in at 4 percent for last month.Bank of France President Francois Villeroy de Galhau, often the bellwether for ECB policy changes, has been the most vocal policymaker about potentially cutting as soon as next Thursday. In a speech last week, he stressed that the potential for a further slowdown in growth means that “the time has come to take out an insurance against this second risk by beginning rate cuts.”Among the biggest euro zone economies, it’s clear that after some stickiness in January and February the downward trend in inflation is resuming. German state inflation was lower across the board. French inflation slowed to 2.4 percent in March from 3.2 percent in the prior month. Italian CPI rose to 1.3 percent from 0.8 percent, but this gain was less than expected and remains significantly below the ECB’s overall target. Spain is an outlier, with March CPI ticking up to 3.2 percent from 2.9 percent, but this is partly down to a reversal of energy-tax cuts.
 
The news published on the date April 03, 2024 02:59 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | A death knell for India’s forex derivative market is: 
 Market makers, speculators, and arbitrageurs typically contribute the majority of trading volumes in exchanges. Dear Readers,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn a departure from the foundational principles of exchange operations, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has issued a directive permitting exchanges to offer forex derivative contracts involving the rupee solely for contracted exposure or hedging purposes. This move is anticipated to effectively halt trading in the forex derivative market, with reports suggesting a projected reduction in trading volume by over 80 percent.Within any exchange ecosystem, various participants exist, including market makers, speculators, hedgers, arbitrageurs, and delivery-based buyers. Market makers, speculators, and arbitrageurs typically contribute the majority of trading volumes in exchanges.According to a publication by the National Stock Exchange (NSE), India's primary exchange for currency derivatives, corporate entities accounted for a mere 3.9 percent of currency derivatives turnover based on notional turnover in February while foreign investors contributed 6.2 percent. Proprietary traders and individual investors dominated the market, responsible for 80 percent of the turnover.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 02:22 AM IST with headline  Govt waives duty on export of 1,000 tonnes of kalanamak rice is: 
 Govt waives duty on export of 1,000 tonnes of kalanamak rice The government has removed duty on the Kalanamak variety of rice for exports of up to 1,000 tonnes through six specified customs stations.The duty on overseas shipments of Kalanamak rice was 20 per cent.Story continues below AdvertisementAccording to a notification by the Finance Ministry, the duty waiver on the export of up to 1,000 tonnes of this variety of rice will come into effect from Wednesday.The Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) on Tuesday had allowed exports of up to 1,000 tonnes of Kalanamak rice through specified customs stations.Kalanamak is a variety of non-basmati rice, exports of which were earlier prohibited.Exports of this variety of rice are allowed through six customs stations - Varanasi Air Cargo; JNCH (Jawaharlal Nehru Customs House), Maharashtra; CH (customs house) Kandla, Gujarat; LCS (land customs station) Nepalgunj Road; LCS Sonauli; and LCS Barhni
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 02:24 AM IST with headline  India's 'Goldilocks' economy to prompt RBI to keep rates on hold is: 
 India's 'Goldilocks' economy to prompt RBI to keep rates on hold Strong economic growth and moderating inflation means India's central bank will have room to keep interest rates on hold at its review this week and likely until July, economists say.The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is widely expected to keep rates unchanged on Friday, for the seventh consecutive meeting.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAll 56 economists in the March 15-22 Reuters poll expected the RBI to hold the repo rate at 6.50% while most expect no change at least until July.The RBI has ample room to remain on hold in the near term, Barclays said in a note.The central bank last changed rates in February 2023, when the policy rate was hiked to 6.5%.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 01:58 AM IST with headline  High crude oil prices a cause for concern, says oil secretary Pankaj Jain is: 
 Rising crude oil prices are a cause for concern for the world's third-largest importer of the commodity, India's oil secretary Pankaj Jain said on April 3.As a consuming nation any increase in prices will cause concern and anxiety, Jain said at an event, referring to the "geopolitical premium" in crude prices, reported news agency Reuters.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIf oil prices continue to stay higher for a month longer, oil marketing companies will take an appropriate decision, the secretary said, when asked if there is a case for increasing retail fuel prices.The minister's comments come in the backdrop of global oil benchmark Brent rising above $89 a barrel for the first time since October, albeit briefly, as oil supplies faced fresh threats from Ukranian attacks on Russian energy facilities and escalating conflict in the Middle East.Brent futures for June delivery were up $1.16, or 1.3%, at $88.58 a barrel by 1218 GMT after touching a peak of $89.08.
 
The news published on the date April 03, 2024 01:00 PM IST with headline  Larry Fink’s faith in the power of markets needs some tempering is: 
 - The father of mortgage-backed securities, unsurprisingly, puts his faith in the power of markets.Larry Fink last week released his perennially anticipated shareholder letter. This year, he focused on his concerns about global retirement safety against the backdrop of rising life expectancies and inadequate savings.But he also offered his thoughts on investment market structure. Fink said the advances in the depth and sophistication of US capital and securities markets over the past 40 years had diminished the influenc
 
The news published on the date April 03, 2024 01:27 PM IST with headline  MPC Meet: RBI to maintain status quo with a hint of caution is: 
 The MPC had maintained status quo on the policy rates and stance in its review that was held in early-February 2024. The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meets later this week for the first time in FY2025, which marks the Reserve Bank of India’s 90th year. In the first policy review for this fiscal, status quo on the rates and stance seems to firmly be on the cards, along with a dose of caution about the inflationary as well as geo-political outlook.To recap, the MPC had maintained status quo on the policy rates and stance in its review that was held in early-February 2024. The decision, however, was not unanimous, with one of the members voting for a rate cut of 25 bps and a change in the policy stance to neutral. Besides, the minutes of the meeting revealed that another member had highlighted that the FY2025 inflation forecast provided room for a cut.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSatisfactory Economic DataThe data releases since the last policy meeting have been quite positive on the domestic growth front, whereas the outlook for inflation remains stubbornly uncertain. Both of these are likely to lead to a recalibration of expectations around the future course of monetary policy action.Firstly, the National Statistical Office (NSO) pegged India’s GDP growth at an unexpectedly high 7.6% in FY2024. The RBI Governor subsequently highlighted that India’s growth is likely to be closer to the 8%-mark in FY2024. This has predicated the broad consensus that the April 2024 policy review will reveal a status quo.
 
The news published on the date April 03, 2024 02:38 PM IST with headline  RBI's stance on underlying exposure for FX derivatives unchanged: Report is: 
 The MPC had maintained status quo on the policy rates and stance in its review that was held in early-February 2024. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has not materially changed its stance on exchange-traded rupee derivatives and neither has it asked brokerages for proof of their clients' underlying forex exposure, two sources aware of the central bank's thinking said.The RBI had said in January that effective April 5, exchanges may offer forex derivative contracts involving the rupee to users "for the purpose of hedging contracted exposure".Story continues below Advertisement"The underlying exposure requirement was always there. There has been no change in that," the first source aware of the central bank's thinking said.Brokerages who are asking clients to provide documents as proof of exposure are doing so of their own volition and have not been instructed to do so by the central bank, the second source said.The sources declined to be named as they are not authorised to speak to the media
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 02:09 AM IST with headline  100-day agenda for new Govt: GTRI for easy e-comm rules, national trade network to boost exports is: 
 100-day agenda for new Govt: GTRI for easy e-comm rules, national trade network to boost exports Simplification of e-commerce rules, disbursement of duty refund scheme in cash, and setting up of a national trade network, and publishing a report on the effectiveness of India's trade pacts should be part of the new government's 100-day agenda, GTRI said on Wednesday.The economic think tank Global Trade Research Initiative (GTRI) also suggested the use of blockchain technology for tracing mechanisms for major fruits and vegetable products, allowing special economic zones to sell goods in the domestic market on duty foregone basis, and reducing reliance on China for important imports such as Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients, solar cells, EV batteries, and mobile phone components.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"The first 100 days represent a critical window (for a new government) to set the tone for governance and policy direction," GTRI Founder Ajay Srivastava said.The seven-phase Lok Sabha polls, the world's biggest election exercise, will kick off on April 19 with the counting of votes set to take place on June 4.It further recommended the preparation of an action plan for countering the adverse effects of European climate regulation; building alliances, strengthening partnerships for better results at the WTO (World Trade Organisation); highlighting how several WTO laws are discriminatory and need change; and standardising incentives in manufacturing schemes.
 
The news published on the date April 03, 2024 01:28 PM IST with headline  MPC Meet: Why RBI should step back and reduce interest rates is: 
 The RBI has prohibited financial institutions from charging penal rates on loan defaults or non-compliance with credit terms. By lowering the purchasing power of households, inflation which is nothing but indirect taxation, discourages consumption which remains the backbone of the Indian economy. Furthermore, sluggishness in consumption caps private investment, and in turn GDP growth. That calls for containing inflation on a priority basis.However, to devise effective policy measures to contain inflation, a thorough diagnosis of the problem is imperative.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdInflation IssuesIn its current form, inflation in India is more about deficient supply, especially of perishable horticultural produce and not excess demand. Populist hikes in support and procurement prices of cereals add to the complexity of food inflation and reduces the effectiveness of monetary policy moves.Since the cause of inflation is not excess demand (rather consumer demand remains weak if the latest GDP data is any indication), measures to control demand i.e. tighter monetary policy, will have a limited impact if any on prices, especially on food prices.
 
The news published on the date April 03, 2024 10:00 AM IST with headline  Manufacturing pickup is good news for the world economy is: 
 The gentle upswing in manufacturing should be welcomed rather thanscoured for caveats. The good news is that the global economy appears to have avoided a protracted downdraft, something that looked like a reasonable outcome last year. The US doesn’t have to carry the world on its shoulders, at least not quite to the same degree.Nations that are important nodes in factory supply chains enjoyed an acceleration in March. While the Institute for Supply Management’s gauge came in too hot for some traders’ liking, don’t let that crowd out a very solid performance from production lines and wharves in Asia. If that region can do better than the so-so performance turned in last year, it can make a real contribution to a prolonged global expansion.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThis is worth applause rather than despair. Yes, the first expansion in US manufacturing since 2022 pushed back estimates of how much the Federal Reserve will juice the economy and when that modest easing may commence. Some policymakers had already expressed misgivings about the Fed's projection of several interest-rate cuts in the lead-up to the ISMreport on Monday. The unexpectedly strong American number doesn't have to be a major setback. The central bank's leaders have stressed for a while that there's no rush.The US economy has been performing well, given the rapid monetary tightening that characterized 2021 and 2022. The big power getting a lot of bad press has been China. That makes upbeat data on manufacturing particularly welcome. Hours before the ISM report, figures showed China's closely watched purchasing managers index rose more than forecast in March. Factory activity has expanded for five months. Among other encouraging signs, exports are picking up and the longest streak of deflation since the 1990s was broken in February.None of this means China's struggles are over. The property collapse is still weighing on growth, consumer sentiment is languishing, companies are reining in spending, and further stimulus will likely be required. But compared with the bad vibes and China-is-done narrative, it would be churlish not to acknowledge pleasing news when it comes. There may now be too much negativity toward the world’s second-largest economy.
 
The news published on the date April 03, 2024 08:54 AM IST with headline  India’s oil import strategy faces risks from geopolitics, rising prices is: 
 The OPEC+ production cuts have been amplified by disruptive geopolitics with both the status of the Russia-Ukraine war and the scenario in the Red Sea with the Houthi attacks raising concerns about supply HighlightsOPEC+ cuts announced last year could continue to remain for 2024Crude oil prices could stay elevated or rise further due to Russia-Ukraine war and Houthi attacks in the Red SeaDemand for crude oil in India has risen sharply and is expected to rise furtherIndia’s purchases of Russian oil are nearing its end due to increasing US sanctionsIndia may soon have to turn to Iraq and the Gulf to meet oil needs, exposing itself to costlier importsIndia’s oi
 
The news published on the date April 03, 2024 09:59 AM IST with headline  World Bank projects Indian economy to grow at 7.5% in 2024 is: 
 World Bank projects Indian economy to grow at 7.5% in 2024 The Indian economy is pEconomy,india,GDP,Growthrojected to grow at 7.5 per cent in 2024, the World Bank has said, revising its earlier projections for the same period by 1.2 per cent.Overall, growth in South Asia is expected to be strong at 6.0 per cent in 2024, driven mainly by robust growth in India and recoveries in Pakistan and Sri Lanka, the World Bank said in its latest South Asia Development Update on Tuesday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAccording to the report, South Asia is expected to remain the fastest-growing region in the world for the next two years, with growth projected to be 6.1% in 2025."In India, which accounts for the bulk of the region's economy, output growth is expected to reach 7.5% in FY23/24 before returning to 6.6% over the medium term, with activity in services and industry expected to remain robust," the bank said in its report.In Bangladesh, output is expected to rise by 5.7% in FY24/25, with high inflation and restrictions on trade and foreign exchange constraining economic activity.
 
The news published on the date April 02, 2024 08:49 PM IST with headline  Dollar lower after US jobs data little changed, jawboning supports yen is: 
 Dollar lower after US jobs data little changed, jawboning supports yen The U.S. dollar was down on Tuesday after earlier hitting its highest in almost five months, following a new report that showed U.S. job openings held steady at higher levels in February.The dollar index rose to 105.1 on Tuesday, its highest level since Nov. 14, adding to sharp gains on Monday after U.S. data unexpectedly showed the first expansion in manufacturing since September 2022.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIt last stood at 104.73, down 0.257% after a report from the Labor Department showed that job openings edged up to 8.756 million on the last day of February, slightly higher than expectations.Monday's U.S. ISM manufacturing survey data featured a sharp rise in a measure of prices in the sector, adding to investors' concerns that inflation will be slow to fall back to 2%, delaying the Federal Reserve's first rate cut."Really the dollar over the last nine months or so has been driven by Fed policy expectations -- when the probability of a cut increases sooner, the dollar tends to weaken, and vice versa," said John Velis, Americas macro strategist at BNY Mellon.
 
The news published on the date April 02, 2024 06:08 PM IST with headline  Gold hits fresh record high with support from momentum-following funds is: 
 Gold hits fresh record high with support from momentum-following funds Gold prices rose to a fresh record high on Tuesday as demand from momentum-following funds offset a strong U.S. dollar and the possibility of higher-for-longer U.S. rates.Spot gold was up 0.5% to $2,262.51 per ounce by 1055 GMT, after hitting an all-time high of $2,266.59. The bullion has been hitting fresh record highs for three sessions in a row.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"An underlying bid from retail and central banks is being joined by momentum-following speculators who have extended their already elevated longs following the break above $2,200," said Ole Hansen at Saxo Bank."In addition, there is no doubt that geopolitical tensions have added an additional layer of support."The bullion rose by 9.3% in March, which was its biggest monthly growth since July 2020, amid persistent safe-haven demand and central bank purchases. China's central bank has been adding gold to its reserves for 16 months in a row.
 
The news published on the date April 02, 2024 05:11 PM IST with headline  How many gig workers are there? Depends on how you ask is: 
 Companies like Uber have enabled the gig economy. (Source: Bloomberg/Getty Images) Our understanding of the US labour market is based to a remarkable extent on a few questions asked each month as part of the Current Population Survey, which is conducted by the Census Bureau in cooperation with the Bureau of Labour Statistics. The most important goes something like this (the wording changes depending who is asked and when): LAST WEEK, did you do ANY work for either pay or profit?If the answer is no, there’s a series of questions to suss out whether the respondent is looking for work or is not working because she’s retired, in school, disabled, or for some other reason. If it’s yes, there are follow-up questions about hours worked, self-employment, multiple jobs and so on. This is how the BLS determines the unemployment rate as well as other key indicators such as the employment-population ratio and the labour force participation rate.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSometimes the Current Population Survey includes additional questions, such as this one:Last week, were you working as an independent contractor, an independent consultant, or a free-lance worker? [That is, someone who obtains customers on their own to provide a product or service.]That’s from the May 2017 Contingent and Alternative Employment Arrangements supplement, the results of which received a lot of attention from me and others. They showed the percentage of US workers who are independent contractors or freelancers to have fallen to 6.9 percent, from 7.4 percent the previous time the questions were asked in 2005. The share in “alternative work arrangements” — contractors/freelancers plus temporary help agency employees and on-call workers — had dropped to 10.1 percent from 10.7 percent.These declines were the opposite of what most had expected, given the much-heralded rise over that same period of the “gig economy” enabled by online platforms such as Uber Inc., Taskrabbit (now owned by Ikea) and Upwork Global Inc. They also seemed to contradict the findings of a survey modeled on the contingent work supplement and conducted by two prominent labour economists in 2015, which found that 15.8 percent of US workers were in alternative work arrangements and that such work had accounted for 94 percent of net job growth since 2005.
 
The news published on the date April 02, 2024 04:20 PM IST with headline  Rupee falls 4 paise to close at 83.43 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee falls 4 paise to close at 83.43 against US dollar The rupee on Tuesday consolidated in a narrow range and settled 4 paise lower at 83.43 against the US dollar, weighed down by a strong dollar and elevated crude oil prices.Forex traders said a weak trend in domestic equities also dented investor sentiments.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange, the local unit opened at 83.37, then touched an intraday high of 83.34 and a low of 83.44 against the greenback. The rupee finally settled at 83.43, a fall of 4 paise over its previous close.On Thursday last week, the rupee depreciated 6 paise to settle at 83.39 against the US dollar.Forex market was closed on Friday and Monday on account of 'Good Friday' and the annual account closing of banks, respectively.
 
The news published on the date April 02, 2024 06:18 PM IST with headline  Brent oil price hits highest this year on fresh supply threats is: 
 Global oil benchmark Brent breaks above $88 on fresh supply threats Global oil benchmark Brent on Tuesday rose above $89 a barrel for the first time since October, albeit briefly, as oil supplies faced fresh threats from Ukranian attacks on Russian energy facilities and escalating conflict in the Middle East.Brent futures for June delivery were up $1.16, or 1.3%, at $88.58 a barrel by 1218 GMT after touching a peak of $89.08.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdU.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures for May rose $1.23, or about 1.5%, to $84.94.A Ukrainian drone struck one of Russia's biggest refineries on Tuesday in an attack that Russia initially said it repelled.A Reuters analysis of images showing the impact of the attack suggest it hit the refinery's primary oil refining unit, which accounts for about half of the plant's total annual production capacity of 340,000 barrels per day (bpd).
 
The news published on the date April 02, 2024 06:24 PM IST with headline  India third-most improved business destination in the world: Report is: 
 India came third on the list of most improved countries as a result of its youthful demographic, which promises strong demand and availability of good labour Greece, Qatar and India have improved the most globally in providing the best environment to businesses in the past one year, according to a report by Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU).India came third on the list of most improved countries as a result of its youthful demographic, which promises strong demand and availability of good labour, the report said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“India is the only single-country market that offers a potential scale comparable to that of China,” the report said.The EIU said it expects strong economic growth between 2024 and 2028 with more foreign direct investments coming into India as companies look for manufacturing destinations other than China.In the business environment rankings (BER), Greece improved the most due to policy reforms by a pro-business government, while Argentina’s free market programs under its new president Javier Milei has propelled its improvement in the list.
 
The news published on the date April 02, 2024 03:41 PM IST with headline  Bracing for the Burn: How heat waves are heating up India's economy is: 
 India Heat Wave: Sectors like power, agriculture, and industry face challenges due to heatwaves, impacting productivity and output. A heatwave is more than just a spike in temperature; it's a condition that becomes perilous for human health when exposed. Quantitatively, it's defined by specific temperature thresholds over a region, often in terms of actual temperature or its departure from normal. In some countries, including India, it's characterized by criteria such as the heat index, based on temperature and humidity, or extreme percentiles of temperatures.According to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), in India, the criteria for declaring a heatwave include a maximum temperature of at least 40°C for plains and 30°C for hilly regions, or a departure from the normal temperature of 4.5°C to 6.4°C, with severe heatwaves declared for departures exceeding 6.4°C. Additionally, warm nights, when minimum temperatures remain high, further compound the issue.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe recent report from the IMD advisory signals concerning temperatures above normal in April to June highlights the pressing issue of heatwaves. Several states, including Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Andhra Pradesh, already experienced temperatures ranging from 40°C to 42.6°C in the past week.IMD's forecast indicates a warm April-June period, with high probabilities of prolonged heatwave episodes, particularly affecting states like Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Odisha, North Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, and Telangana. These forecasts come amid continued warm conditions attributed to factors like El Niño.Economy sizzles
 
The news published on the date April 02, 2024 01:09 PM IST with headline  India’s searing heat wave boosts RBI case to wait on rate cuts is: 
 India’s searing heat wave boosts RBI case to wait on rate cuts A sizzling heat wave in large parts of the country will raise concerns for India’s policymakers already grappling with sticky inflation, potentially pushing back the timing for interest rate cuts, economists said.The nation’s weather office on Monday predicted hotter-than-usual temperatures across the country in the three-month period through June, with a high probability of heat wave episodes lasting as long as 10 to 20 days in certain regions.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“A heat wave could potentially slow the disinflation process and keep prices of vegetables elevated,” Teresa John, an economist at Nirmal Bang Institutional Equities Pvt, said by phone. “Our base case for interest rate cuts was June, but now August or October seems more likely,” she said.The pace of inflation in India has remained above the central bank’s 4% target for the last few months, giving policymakers reason to remain cautious. The Reserve Bank of India has kept its benchmark rate unchanged for six straight policy meetings and is scheduled to hold its next monetary policy review on Apr. 5.
 
The news published on the date April 02, 2024 01:09 PM IST with headline  AI revolution will be boon for natural gas, say fossil fuel bosses is: 
 Fuel Price Myles McCormick in Houston and Jamie Smyth and Amanda Chu in New YorkA surge in demand for electricity to feed data centres and to power an artificial intelligence revolution will usher in a golden era for natural gas, producers say.AI’s soaring energy needs will rise well beyond what renewable energy and batteries can deliver, executives argue, making more planet-warming fossil fuel supplies crucial even as governments vow to slash their use.“It will not be done without gas,
 
The news published on the date April 03, 2024 12:59 AM IST with headline  India added 21 GW solar module, 3 GW cell manufacturing capacity in 2023: Mercom is: 
 India added 21 GW solar module, 3 GW cell manufacturing capacity in 2023: Mercom India installed 20.8 GW of solar modules and 3.2 GW of cell manufacturing capacity in 2023, according to Mercom Capital.The country's cumulative solar module manufacturing capacity reached 64.5 GW, and solar cell manufacturing capacity 5.8 GW as of December 2023, the US-based research firm said in its latest report, State of Solar PV Manufacturing.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"About 60 per cent of the installed module manufacturing capacity was equipped to manufacture solar modules in M10 and G12 wafer sizes," the report said.Monocrystalline modules accounted for 67.5 per cent of the country's module production capacity, followed by polycrystalline, tunnel oxide passivated contact (TOPCon), and thin film modules, Mercom said.Module manufacturing capacity is projected to surpass 150 GW, and cell capacity is expected to reach over 75 GW by 2026, it said.
 
The news published on the date April 02, 2024 04:10 PM IST with headline  RBI likely to set cut-off yield on 10-year state bonds in 7.42%-7.44% band: Poll is: 
 RBI likely to set cut-off yield on 10-year state bonds in 7.42%-7.44% band: Poll Indian states will aim to raise an aggregate of 161 billion rupees ($1.93 billion) on Tuesday through a sale of bonds maturing in six years to 20 years.The Reserve Bank of India will likely set cutoff yields for the 10-year bonds in the 7.42%-7.44% band, according to a Reuters poll of 11 traders.Story continues below AdvertisementNote Quantum (in bln Median Min Maxrupees)6-year 5 7.39% 7.37% 7.41%8-10 year 26 7.42%-7.44% 7.40% 7.46%12-20 year 130 7.40%-7.43% 7.38% 7.46
 
The news published on the date April 03, 2024 01:20 AM IST with headline  Institutional investments in real estate down 40% to $995 million in January-March: Report is: 
 Tiger Global VC fund closes 63% below target with $2.2 billion Institutional investments in real estate fell 40 per cent annually in January-March to USD 995.1 million because of a lower inflow of funds in office, residential, and warehousing assets, according to Colliers India.The institutional investments stood at USD 1,658.3 million in the year-ago period.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOut of the total institutional investments, real estate consultant Colliers India highlighted that foreign funds contributed 55 per cent while domestic investors 45 per cent.As per the data, the institutional investments in the office fell 38 per cent to USD 563 million in January-March this year from USD 907.6 million in the corresponding period of the previous year.The residential segment witnessed a 72 per cent fall in investments to 102.6 million from 361.1 million.
 
The news published on the date April 02, 2024 09:31 AM IST with headline  Climate Change: India’s path towards sustainability is: 
 India's climate change policies are anchored in international frameworks like the Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement Climate change is one of the defining challenges of our era, with far-reaching implications for the environment, society, and economy. At its core, climate change refers to the long-term alteration of Earth's climate patterns, including shifts in temperature, precipitation, and weather extremes. While climate variations have occurred throughout Earth's history, the current pace and scale of change are unprecedented, largely attributed to human activities, particularly the burning of fossil fuels and deforestation.The consequences of climate change ar
 
The news published on the date April 02, 2024 10:57 AM IST with headline  US economy strengthens, sluggish China welcomes FDI as investments pour in is: 
 China has also welcomed FDI. This is a signal to the US companies who have invested a great deal in China in the past. US President Joe Biden delivered his State of the Union address to the US Congress on 7th March. On the other side of the Pacific in China, the 21st National People's Congress held its plenum.Biden made a pitch for higher taxes and more social sector expenditure. These reflect traditional Democratic Party positions. But there was a strong partisan slant in an election year, which will ensure that American polity will remain polarized. On China, the President was cautious. He mentioned ‘We want competition with China, but not conflict.’ While the ‘work paper’ presented in the Chinese Communist Party National Congress emphasized Taiwan and hiked up defense expenditure.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBiden Cautious on ChinaPresident Biden defined his position in contrast to Trump’s positions on a range of foreign and domestic policy issues. He mentioned ‘Putin of Russia is on the march, invading Ukraine and sowing chaos throughout Europe and beyond.’ He underlined his administration’s commitment to Ukraine and NATO. He contrasted this with his predecessor’s position, ‘a former Republican President’, who told Putin, ‘Do whatever the hell you want.’ On China, he struck a more cautious note. He said ‘our GDP is up’, and ‘our trade deficit with China is down to the lowest point in over a decade.’ He said that America ‘is standing up for peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait.’ He added that he has ensured ‘that the most advanced American technologies can’t be used in China’s weapons.’President Biden reiterated traditional Democrat positions on abortion, gun control, and taxes, contrasting them with the Republican positions. He said that a $2 Trillion tax cut by the previous administration ‘overwhelmingly benefits the very wealthy and the biggest corporations and exploded the federal deficit.’ On his part, he suggested that the corporate minimum tax be raised from 15 percent to 21 percent. Whatever the merits of the positions of the two parties, this suggests that the American polity will remain deeply divided. The division already extends to Congress, where the Democrats control the Senate, while the Republicans control the House. The House decides the budget. Thus, President Biden will have little control over the budget process necessary to support his agenda. He will have to depend upon the monetary policy, which is controlled by the Federal Reserve and the Treasury. The administration will have to depend upon debt, rather than taxes, to finance social spending and economic programs.
 
The news published on the date April 02, 2024 08:48 AM IST with headline  Depleting water levels at reservoirs signal difficult times for agri-input providers is: 
 Representative image Fiscal year 2025 is beginning on an uncertain note for agriculture input providers. Water levels at 150 reservoirs tracked by the Central Water Commission have dropped to the lowest levels in five years. With monsoon rains falling short in 2023, agriculture activity in the upcoming crop season can be hit unless the state governments steps-up relief measures.(image) Water levelsThe scenario is particularly applicable to the South and Western regions, large markets fo
 
The news published on the date April 02, 2024 12:35 PM IST with headline  It’s all about growth in April policy for an inflation-obsessed RBI is: 
 Will GDP growth move the needle for RBI? Governor Shaktikanta Das has indicated that gross domestic product (GDP) growth HighlightsRBI has reiterated the importance of achieving its 4 percent inflation targetAt February policy, members differed on growth, inflation assessmentJR Varma pointed out that GDP growth at potential would mean there is no overheating in FY24GDP growth is expected to be near 8 percent for FY24 and 7 percent for FY25Food has high weighted in CPI inflation, but this could change as CPI is reworked post household survey outcomesCommon sense would tell us that an inflation targetin
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 09:05 PM IST with headline  India's trade dependence on EU, China sees spike: UNCTAD report is: 
 The increase in dependence comes at a time when the country is trying to reduce its imports from China and other countries by putting more focus on manufacturing goods locally India’s dependence for trade on the European Union (EU) and China is rising as global trade has seen a restructuring along the geopolitical lines in the past two years, according to a report by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD).According to the UNCTAD estimates, based on national statistics, India’s reliance on the EU and China rose by 1.2 percent annually in 2023, while it declined in the case of Saudi Arabia by 0.6 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe increase in dependence comes at a time when the country is trying to reduce its imports from China and other countries by emphasising manufacturing goods locally, backed by schemes, such as production-linked schemes (PLI) and Quality Control Orders (QCOs).According to the report, this supply chain shift has happened following the Covid-19 pandemic and the Ukraine-Russia war, which led to a record increase in prices of food and fuels.“During the last two years, the geographical proximity of international trade has remained relatively constant, showing minimal nearshoring or far-shoring trends. However, since the latter part of 2022, there has been a noticeable rise in the political proximity of trade.
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 06:15 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | What the new fiscal year brings, some old, some new is: 
 Investors will tune in to management commentary, in their media and investor calls, to assess how the year is likely to pan out. Dear Reader,In a few weeks from now, India’s companies will total what they did in a year, financially speaking, and report it to their shareholders. Fourth quarter results too will be released, but they are more of a balancing figure. While we will be on top of that, bringing you results, analysis and investment views, that’s after all a rear view of how FY24 went.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMuch of it is already reflected partly in the wealth created for stock market investors in the past year, with the S&P BSE Sensex up by nearly 25 percent over a year ago and the Nifty up by 29 percent. In today’s edition, our columnist Ananya Roy takes a close look at what led to the rally in shares of different shapes and sizes, the relay rally run by FIIs and DIIs that kept investors in a good mood in FY24, and then a forecast on what’s likely in FY25. She has a cautious message for investors that they should pay close attention to. Don’t miss it.These increases, of course, also reflect anticipation of what lies ahead in FY25. Investors will tune in to management commentary, in their media and investor calls, to assess how the year is likely to pan out. While this will be true for all stocks, the interest will be higher in mid and small caps, where doubts have arisen on whether froth has built up and to what extent in these stocks.Two known events will stand out for their impact in FY25. One is the general elections where the outcome is more or less known that the BJP will return to power, but it will still lead to a slowdown in activity in the first half, as government business slows down. This is important as it will affect sectors that are dependent on the investment cycle, which has been humming on the back of government spending.
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 08:01 PM IST with headline  The Dollar is more armoured division than currency is: 
 The biggest risk to the dollar may be the US itself. There’s just no getting past the supremacy of the dollar, much as skeptics of American influence wish for it or lonely yen bulls cry for relief. The greenback has been frequently tipped to retreat, only for it to blow away everything in front of it. This resilience might not last, but as long as it does, it reminds a world once in thrall to China’s ascent that the US is the essential economic force. Just ask all the central bankers quizzed as much, if not more, about the Federal Reserve’s intentions as their own. Sovereignty can be relative.Events billed as heralding a pullback have barely made a dent: Japan’s decision to end eight years of negative interest rates fizzled in markets; the country’s finance minister has resorted to jawboning the yen stronger, and traders are handicapping the prospects of intervention by Tokyo. Even projections of rate cuts by the Fed aren’t doing it: Reductions are likely to be synchronous among the biggest authorities, preventing any major currency from outshining the dollar. This year was meant to be one in which the dollar fell, but a key index of its support is off to a strong start.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThat’s the short term. Markets fluctuate and currencies, like stock and bond markets, have good years and times when things don’t turn out so stellar. But the buoyancy of the past quarter — and last couple of years — is built on something more than rate differences. The longer story of dollar firepower is one of a currency beating back challenge after challenge every few years. In the late 1990s, the coming euro was supposed to rival the dollar. A couple of years later, the current-account deficit became the totem of all that was wrong. (When I ran Bloomberg’s foreign-exchange news in the early 2000s, the most commonly-cited reason for any tough trading day for the dollar was the trade shortfall. A close second was the belief that the US had quietly dropped the strong-dollar policy developed during the Clinton administration.)Then came the subprime collapse and quantitative easing, followed by the would-be rise of the Chinese yuan. The worry du jour: the aggressive use of sanctions, which critics said would lead to a global de-dollarization. It’s as though the rest of the world scouts for a savior every few years. Assertions that the dollar will be undone are overblown, according to a recent paper by Steven B. Kamin, a former head of the Fed’s international finance division, and Mark Sobel, who served as deputy assistant secretary of the Treasury.
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 01:08 PM IST with headline  Direct Benefit Transfers: A revolution under the radar is: 
 HDFC Bank: The bank has sold 27,81,897 shares (representing 3.03 percent of the equity capital) of Indraprastha Medical Corporation between February 29 and April 4, 2024, through the secondary market route. After the stake sale, the bank holds 2.45 percent of Indraprastha. The average selling price was Rs 199.38 per share, and the total stake sale worth was Rs 55.46 crore. By Sriram Balasubramanian In the run up to the 10th anniversary of the Narendra Modi government, there have been numerous comparisons between the performance of the government viz-a-viz previous regimes. The release of the NSSO survey results for 2022-23 and its projected elimination in extreme poverty has further enriched the discussion. While there have been numerous comparisons especially on macro-economic parameters and the poverty indicators, one thing that stands out is the efficiency of welfare schemes which has been significantly better in recent times. At the core of this increase in efficiency is the development of the Direct Benefit transfer system and its scalability in recent times.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe DBT has been well talked about by many researchers over the years. The IMF’s book on inclusive growth consists of a chapter on inclusive growth in India and highlights the DBT system in detail. In very simple terms, it optimizes the JAM trinity—Jan Dhan, Aadhaar and Mobile---to ensure that cash transfers are transferred directly to the bank account of beneficiaries. For the year FY 2023-24, approximately Rs 5,45,599 crore has been transferred to almost 668 crore transactions through 315 schemes and 54 ministries. Cumulative DBT transfers for all the years since its inception is a whopping Rs 35,30,011 crore. One wonders what has made the DBT such an important part of the developmental narrative and why its central perhaps to future progress as well. There are three main reasons.First, besides the technology, the recent scalability of DBT across many states in India has ensured that corruption through middlemen (on welfare schemes) is significantly reduced. Leakages of the system for direct cash transfers has been reduced significantly since the money reaches the beneficiaries directly into their bank accounts. This has generated significant monetary savings which we define in economics called the ‘opportunity cost’---what would have been the cost had the DBT not been there? The answer to this question is staggering. According to the chart shown below, the cumulative savings in the DBT schemes from has been a staggering Rs 3,48,564.66 (approx. Rs 3.5 trillion) crores from the beginning of the DBT around FY2015 to March 2023. Source: DBT website
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 01:49 PM IST with headline  Capex intensity of corporates likely to increase after Lok Sabha polls: India Ratings is: 
 Depending on the current trends, various schemes in place and which government comes to power, the rating agency believes the performance of corporates to be robust in 2024-25 The companies are likely to speed up their capex plans after the Lok Sabha results come in as they will analyse their growth drivers, assuming the commodity prices will remain controlled, India Ratings said on Monday.“Various companies are evaluating their capex requirement going forward. We believe that capex intensity is likely to increase after elections, depending on what the companies see as their growth drivers. We expect there may be a pickup in capex depending on the Lok Sabha election outcome and the level of demand. Expect investment to pick up in FY25,” Arvind Rao, Senior Director, India Ratings & Research said at a press conference.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdDepending on the current trends, various schemes in place and which government comes to power, the rating agency believes the performance of corporates to be robust in 2024-25.“In the current year we expect an increase in profitability, if commodity prices remain controlled. Though the upgrade proportion is likely to reduce and the downgrade to upgrade ratio will increase further. The rating actions will see moderation in FY25,” he added.Globally, with the likelihood of a hard landing in the US having receded, abating concerns on inflation as well as risks to global growth being broadly balanced, the outlook on global growth for 2024 has been raised to 2.4 percent from 2.1 percent by Fitch Ratings. On the domestic front, Ind-Ra estimates FY25 GDP growth rate to be at a healthy 6.5 percent.
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 08:01 PM IST with headline  Domestic consumption demand, Govt capex lent support to India Inc's credit profile: ICRA is: 
 Domestic consumption demand, Govt capex lent support to India Inc's credit profile: ICRA Rating agency ICRA on Monday said domestic consumption demand, government's infrastructure spending and healthy balance sheets lent support to India Inc's credit profile in the 2023-24 fiscal, even though rise in borrowing cost, sluggish exports and certain global events posed challenges.In the just-concluded fiscal year, ICRA upgraded two entities for every entity downgraded, in continuation of the upgrade momentum that had been set in motion in FY22.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAviation, hospitality, auto and auto components, and banks were the few sectors in 2023-24 where the rating upgrades were induced mostly by industry tailwinds.The domestic rating agency said India Inc bore direct and the indirect effects of multiple challenges in FY24, including inflation, rise in borrowing costs, sub-par monsoon, supply-effects of the continued war between Russia and Ukraine, start of another conflict between Israel and Palestine, the Red Sea crisis, and sluggish exports.Yet, these did not feel heavier as domestic consumption demand across several sectors, government spending on public infrastructure, and healthy balance sheets lent support to the credit profiles of entities, ICRA said.
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 01:53 PM IST with headline  India's power consumption rises 1.4% to 129.89 billion units in March is: 
 India's power consumption rises 1.4% to 129.89 billion units in March India's power consumption growth remained subdued at 1.4 per cent to 129.89 billion units (BU) in March as compared to the year-ago period mainly due to pleasant weather, according to government data.In March 2023, power consumption stood at 128.12 BU, lower than 128.47 BU recorded in the same month a year earlier, the data showed.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe highest supply in a day (peak power demand) rose to 221.70 GW in March 2024 as opposed to 208.92 GW in March 2023 and 199.43 GW in March 2022.Experts said power consumption as well as demand growth remained subdued in March as the weather remained pleasant across the country and people did not feel the need for heating or cooling appliances, especially in north India.The power ministry has estimated around 260 GW of peak demand during summer.
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 08:00 PM IST with headline  Credit quality outlook of India Inc positive in first half of FY25: Crisil Ratings is: 
 Share sale in Coal India fetched Rs 4,186 crore, while in NHPC and NLC India it garnered Rs 2,488 crore and Rs 2,129 crore, respectively Crisil Ratings on Monday said the credit quality outlook for Indian corporates remains positive for the April-September period of the 2024-25 fiscal year with upgrades continuing to outpace downgrades.In the last fiscal year, Crisil gave 409 rating upgrades and 228 downgrades. Some export-linked sectors, such as textile and seafood, saw a higher downgrade rate due to subdued global demand or high-cost inventory that impacted profitability.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"India Inc's credit quality outlook is positive for the first half of fiscal 2025 with upgrades expected to outnumber downgrades. Multiplier effect of government capex will continue to drive infrastructure and linked sectors. Healthy balance sheets will continue to support the credit quality outlook, with capex funding seen prudent," Crisil Rating said.It said the outstanding bank credit is expected to cross Rs 200 lakh crore by March 2025, from Rs 172 lakh crore a year ago, even though there would be moderation in the rate of credit growth.The Indian economy with a GDP growth of 6.8 per cent is expected to remain the fastest-growing large economy in the current fiscal. The growth will, however, moderate from 7.6 per cent expected in 2023-24 as high interest rates and lower fiscal impulse to growth will temper demand, according to Crisil.
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 01:29 PM IST with headline  India hydropower output records steepest fall in nearly four decades is: 
 India hydropower output records steepest fall in nearly four decades India's hydroelectricity output fell at the steepest pace in at least 38 years during the year ended March 31, a Reuters analysis of government data showed, as erratic rainfall forced further dependence on coal-fired power amid higher demand.The 16.3% drop in generation from the country's biggest clean energy source coincided with the share of renewables in power generation sliding for the first time since Prime Minister Narendra Modi made commitments to boost solar and wind capacity at the United Nations climate talks at Paris in 2015.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRenewables accounted for 11.7% of India's power output in the year that ended in March, down from 11.8% a year earlier, a Reuters analysis of daily load despatch data from the federal grid regulator Grid-India showed.India is the world's third-largest greenhouse gas emitter, and the government often points to lower per-capita emissions compared to developed nations to defend rising coal use.A five-year low in reservoir levels means hydro output will likely remain low during the hottest months of April-June, experts say, potentially boosting dependence on coal during a period of high demand before the monsoon starts in June.
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 12:20 PM IST with headline  April Fool stories is: 
 It’s April 1, folks. Happy reading! April 1, New York: In a stunning development, leaders of the world’s richest economies today agreed to fund a programme that will ensure food, shelter, health and education for every person in the world within a year. Sources say that trillions of dollars, much of which was obtained by the plunder of colonies, will be returned to the developing world under the programme. Funds will also be made available to combat climate change, especially to the island nations facing extinction.Sources say some reporters at the press conference called to announce the resolution had to be carried out on stretchers.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdApril 1, Tel Aviv: Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu resigned today, taking responsibility for his inability to stop the Hamas attack on October 7, 2023 and the subsequent carnage in Gaza. “I humbly agree to abide by the UN Security Council resolution on a cease fire’’, he added. Unconfirmed reports say that several of Netanyahu’s cabinet members had heart attacks.April 1, New Delhi: A politician who had recently switched political parties pooh-poohed all talk of a change of heart. ‘’All that talk is rubbish”, he said, calling on people to support him because he was spending millions on his election and promising to shower them with freebies. ‘’Nobody gives a damn about ideals’’, he said, pointing out that, ‘’My only focus is to get elected,’’ to wild cheers from his supporters.April 1, New York: World leaders today decided to cancel trillions of dollars of debt owed by the least developed countries. ‘’We emit a lot of hot air about the problems these countries face,’’ said Joe Biden, adding, ‘’but today, we have finally decided to walk the talk.’’
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 10:16 AM IST with headline  For India, Saudi Arabia is both an opportunity and a quandary is: 
 - HighlightsOil is not as critical to the Saudi Arabian’s economy, with non-oil revenues contributing to nearly half of the Kingdom’s GDPSaudi Arabia’s changes could impact many a geopolitical analysis, both across the Middle East and a wider AsiaThough Western companies are still collectively the largest investors, on a country-basis it’s still China that is making some of the fastest inroads in Saudi ArabiaYet, the sectors where Saudi Arabia is looking at growth are well within the gras
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 09:39 AM IST with headline  India gold prices soar to record high, dampening demand, dealers say is: 
 India gold prices soar to record high, dampening demand, dealers say Indian gold futures hit an all-time high on Monday, tracking gains in overseas markets and squeezing demand in the world's second-biggest consumer of the precious metal, dealers said.Domestic gold futures rose to 69,487 Indian rupees ($834.07) per 10 grams, up nearly 10% so far in 2024.Story continues below AdvertisementIndia's gold imports are set to plunge by more than 90% in March from the previous month to hit their lowest since the COVID pandemic, a government official and two bank dealers told Reuters last week
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 10:02 AM IST with headline  Government raises $1.98 billion by selling stakes in companies in 2023/24 is: 
 Government raises $1.98 billion by selling stakes in companies in 2023/24 The Indian government has raised 165 billion rupees ($1.98 billion) in 2023/24 by selling its stakes in about 10 state-run companies, official data showed, about 9% lower than its internal target of 180 billion rupees.Prime Minister Narendra Modi's ambition of privatising state-run firms has taken a back seat due to general elections that start on April 19.Story continues below AdvertisementModi's government has met its privatisation and minority stake sale target only twice in the last decade, even though his government's track record is better than any previous administration.His government has not set a target for the current financial year, which starts on April 1, in a break from usual practice.However, lower stake sale receipts have been partly made up by higher dividends that the government received from state-run companies.In 2023/24, the government received about 630 billion rupees as dividends, above its target of 500 billion rupees, government data showed
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 09:40 AM IST with headline  No changes in new tax regime from April 1: Finance Ministry is: 
 The new tax regime is applicable for persons other than companies and firms, as a default regime from the assessment year 2024-25. No changes are being made to the new tax regime from the financial year 2024-25, which begins April 1, the finance ministry has said, describing as misleading some social media posts that said otherwise.Though the new tax regime is the default one, taxpayers can opt out of it till the filing of returns for assessment year 2024-25, the ministry said late in the night on March 31.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“The taxpayers can choose the tax regime that they think is beneficial to them. The option for opting out from the new tax regime is available till filing of return for the AY 2024-25.“Eligible persons without any business income will have the option to choose the regime for each financial year. So, they can choose a new tax regime in one financial year and old tax regime in another year and vice versa. There is no new change which is coming in from April 1, 2024,” the statement said.ALSO READ: Tax-saving: Exemptions you can claim under the new and old tax regimes
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 09:10 AM IST with headline  Goldiam International: Play on the growing lab grown diamond jewellery demand is: 
 Robust play on growing Lab grown diamond PRO Only Highlights - Quarterly performance largely backed by improved realisations - Medium-term triggers China plus and protectionist measures for tyre industry - Valuations not inexpensive; but improved medium-term outlook HighlightsDemand recovers; expect near double-digit growth in FY25Increasing acceptance for LGD globallyTo foray into LGD retailing in IndiaStrong balance sheetThe increasing acceptance of LGD (lab grown diamonds) globally is proving to be beneficial for (Goldiam; CMP: Rs 171; market cap: Rs 1,843 crore; Rating: Overweight). The recovery in the key market of the United States and entry into new geographies are likely to result in a near double-digit revenue growth next fiscal.Goldiam, with
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 09:39 AM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Market Outlook | High probability of markets touching new highs during the week is: 
 The short-term indicators hint at an upmove. Dear Reader,Despite comprising only three trading days, the final week of fiscal year FY24 concluded with a robust market performance, as benchmark indices rose by nearly one percent. Particularly noteworthy were the last two days of the March expiry, during which both the Nifty and Sensex closed in on their previous highs. This surge was fuelled by end-of-year fund buying observed across various sectors, leading to a broad-based rally.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn the March series, the Nifty experienced a gain of 1.6 percent, contributing to its solid 28.6 percent gain for FY24. Additionally, in FY24, the Mid, Small, and Large-cap indices surged by 63 percent, 60 percent, and 32 percent, respectively.On the global front, the week concluded with mixed market performances. European markets continued to rally and key US market indices showed divergent trends. However, the majority of Asian markets posted negative returns.Bounce from oversold zone
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 08:14 AM IST with headline  Chart of the Day: Take the year-on-year core sector growth figures with a large dose of salt is: 
 - The Core industries growth number for February came in at 6.72 percent year-on-year, up from 4.09 percent year-on-year in January. Is that yet another indication of an acceleration in economic growth?Not really. Year-on-year growth was a stunning 13.37 percent in August 2023, followed by a good 9.45 percent in September, which accelerated to a formidable 12.68 percent in October, fell to a still-respectable 7.89 percent in November, slid thereafter to 4.89 percent and 4.09 percent in Decembe
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 08:15 AM IST with headline  The intriguing maths behind India's improved current account position is: 
 - The current account deficit for Oct-Dec 2023 has come in at a very comfortable 1.16 percent of GDP, much better than the 2.02 percent of GDP current account deficit in Oct-Dec 2022.But how exactly was this improvement achieved?(image) Chart 1 has the details, taking net inflows as a percentage of GDP. As the chart shows, the most important improvement has been in the merchandise trade balance, which has improved from -8.55 percent of GDP in Oct-Dec 202
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 08:06 AM IST with headline  March sees sharp decline in stock market volumes amid heightened volatility is: 
 In March, Sensex and Nifty gained 1.6 percent each while BSE Smallcap and midcap fell 0.6 percent and 4.55 percent respectively. March saw a notable decline in daily volumes in both cash and derivative segments of stock exchanges, thanks to a heightened volatility in the equity market.The average daily turnover in the equity cash segment of the BSE and the NSE dropped 13.33 percent, the most since October 2023, to Rs 1.12 lakh crore. Similarly, the average daily turnover for derivatives decreased by 8.76 percent to Rs 373.44 lakh crore, marking the sharpest fall since April 2021, from Rs 409.27 lakh crore in February.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Average turnover in the cash segment in March fell compared to February due to the correction in the overall market from the second week of March and even sharper correction across the small and midcaps. The average turnover in derivatives fell as apart from the above reason, bounce in the third week of March was patchy among the F&O stocks. Also year-end considerations meant that the overall positions were reduced during the course of the month," said Deepak Jasani, head of retail research at HDFC Securities.
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 07:55 AM IST with headline  The Eastern Window: Xi Jinping tries to charm US CEOs as foreign investment slides is: 
 Xi Jinping's recent meeting with American business leaders and academics is being interpreted as a sign that he is extremely worried on the foreign investment front HighlightsXi Jinping recently met top American CEOs to convince them about the growth potential of China.FDI has shrunk to the lowest level in three decadesIMF has advised China to immediately initiate reform measuresChina fears the possible re-election of Donald Trump who has already threatened to impose harsh tariffs on Chinese goodsChinese President Xi Jinping does not usually meet foreign investors except celebrities like Bill Gates. He usually leaves the job of charming and negotiating with foreign compan
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 09:39 AM IST with headline  After a blockbuster rally in FY24, will FY25 see an encore? is: 
 Market volatility is expected to remain elevated until election results are announced towards the end of Q1 FY25 FY24 has been a blockbuster year for Indian equities. We have seen a broad-based rally across size-segments as well as sectors. While the blue-chip index Nifty 50 has rallied by almost 30 percent, Nifty Midcap 100 and Nifty Smallcap 100 indices have delivered massive returns of 60 percent and 70 percent respectively.Even among the relatively sober blue-chips, we have seen a secular rally as 47 out of 50 stocks of the Nifty 50 index have yielded mor
 
The news published on the date March 31, 2024 05:56 PM IST with headline  China's March factory activity expands for first time in six months is: 
 The official non-manufacturing PMI, which includes services and construction, rose to 53 from 51.4 in February, marking the highest reading since September China's manufacturing activity expanded for the first time in six months in March, an official factory survey showed on Sunday, offering relief to policymakers even as a crisis in the property sector remains a drag on the economy and confidence.The official purchasing managers' index (PMI) rose to 50.8 in March from 49.1 in February, above the 50-mark separating growth from contraction and topping a median forecast of 49.9 in a Reuters poll.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRecent upbeat indicators suggest the world's second-largest economy is slowly getting back on better footing, leading analysts to start upgrading their growth forecasts for the year. Policymakers have wrestled with persistent economic sluggishness since the abandonment of China's strict COVID curbs in late 2022."March data show the economy is poised for a strong end to Q1," China Beige Book, an advisory firm, said in a note last week. "Hiring recorded its longest stretch of improvement since late 2020. Manufacturing picked up, as did retail."However, a deep slump in the Asian giant's property sector remains a major drag on growth, testing the health of heavily indebted local governments and state-owned banks' balance sheets.
 
The news published on the date March 30, 2024 10:46 PM IST with headline  Hand spectrometers to students rather than subsidies to chip makers: Raghuram Rajan is: 
 Former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan India needs to focus on more pressing needs, such as putting spectrometers into colleges to produce first-rate science students, rather than wooing chip manufacturers with subsidies, says Raghuram Rajan.While the former central bank governor clarified that it is not that India should never make chips, "but with every nation trying to pursue the same, it would be a ruinous race to get into now".Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Furthermore, it is far from clear how the government decides which industry, sector, or firm gets subsidies. Chip manufacturing is certainly not a labor-intensive industry when jobs are our most important challenge," Rajan said in a LinkedIn post early March 30.Rajan's take on this comes at a time when the Union Cabinet just last month approved three semiconductor plants under its Rs 76,000 crore ($10 billion) chip subsidy scheme. Of the Rs 1.26 lakh crore ($15 billion) total investments in these three facilities, an estimated Rs 48,000 crore ($5.8 billion) will be financed by the Centre's subsidies.The former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor's comments in a recent interview with news agency Bloomberg have stirred up a debate on social media, wherein he criticised the government for focussing on high-profile projects like chip manufacturing instead of fixing the education system.
 
The news published on the date March 31, 2024 01:48 AM IST with headline  India's GDP set to grow 8% or more in Jan-March quarter, finance minister says is: 
 India’s GDP data for the Jan-March quarter is due to be released on May 31. India’s gross domestic product (GDP) is on track to grow by 8% or more in the quarter ending March 31, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Saturday.The economy is expected to show the same rate of year-on-year expansion for the 2023/24 financial year, Sitharaman added, citing the impact of improved inflation management and macroeconomic stability.Story continues below Advertisement"Hopefully the fourth quarter … will also have (growth) of 8% or above 8% resulting in 2023/24 having an average growth in GDP of 8% or over 8%," Sitharaman said during an event in the financial hub of Mumbai.India’s GDP data for the Jan-March quarter is due to be released on May 31.Asia’s third-largest economy grew 8.4% in the October-December quarter year-on-year, outpacing the 7.6% growth recorded for the previous quarter.India’s economy is projected to grow at 7.6% in the current fiscal year to March 31, according to the latest government estimates
 
The news published on the date March 30, 2024 11:29 AM IST with headline  Procurement through govt's online marketplace GeM crosses Rs 4 lakh crore so far this fiscal is: 
 The Government e-Market (GeM) portal was launched on August 9, 2016, for online purchases of goods and services by all central government ministries and departments The procurement of goods and services through government’s portal GeM has crossed Rs 4 lakh crore so far this fiscal due to higher buying activities by various ministries and departments, a senior government official said on Friday.The Government e-Market (GeM) portal was launched on August 9, 2016, for online purchases of goods and services by all central government ministries and departments.”As of March 28, the procurement has crossed Rs 4 lakh crore.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIt is historic,” GeM CEO P K Singh told reporters here. He said that defence sector buyers are buying several goods and services from the platform. ”Assembly of BrahMos missile is being done through GeM as a service contract. In defence, right from supplying eggs up to the missile parts is being done through the portal,” Singh said. In 2021-22 the procurement value stood at Rs 1.06 lakh crore and it crossed Rs 2 lakh crore last financial year. He said that procurement of services from the portal has jumped from Rs 66,000 crore in 2022-23 to Rs 2.05 lakh crore so far this fiscal. Similarly, goods worth Rs 1.95 lakh crore have been bought from the platform till March 28 this fiscal.About the possibility of opening up the portal for consumer at large, Singh said that is a very different ecosystem altogether. ”Yes we will be mulling over, we are preparing for that, we should be prepared for that if the government so desires. If feasible, if practical, we will do a small pilot in this area as well in the coming years, if the approvals are in place,” he said. He informed that several countries from Africa and South East Asia are showing keen interest in GeM. ”We can provide consultancy services also and can also set up similar platform for them.We have queries from several quarters. They have seen and studied our systems,” Singh added. He added that they want to develop GeM as a unified procurement portal of the country. Currently, only goods and services are allowed on the platform and ”we want to include works contract also and if it will come, it will be a big hit”, he said. Further, he said that a dedicated page for election related goods and services like catering and webcasting services are there on the portal. About engagement with states, he said states/Union Territories such as Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Odisha, Bihar, Assam, and Uttarakhand have placed significant procurement orders in the current fiscal. ”The contribution made by central entities including ministries and CPSEs has also greatly spurred the procurement.
 
The news published on the date March 30, 2024 10:04 AM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Weekender | The very long view is: 
 Optimism about the future drives all progress. Dear Reader, Earlier this month, IMF managing director Kristalina Georgieva delivered a speech at King’s College, Cambridge, on “The Economic Possibilities for my Grandchildren”, consciously echoing John Maynard Keynes’ famous 1930 essay titled “Economic Possibilities for our Grandchildren”.Keynes’ essay stands out for its optimism at a time when the stock markets had crashed, and the Great Depression was raging in the advanced economies. Looking beyond the bleak immediate future, he imagined the world a hundred years ahead, which is the world we live in today. The IMF chief singled out this optimism for her praise.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAnd why not? In her speech, Georgieva said that the massive increase in living standards across the world in the last 100 years is very close to the eight-fold rise that Keynes had predicted. She said, ‘’Even as the global population has quadrupled, per-capita global income has risen eightfold. Over the past three decades alone, 1.5 billion people lifted themselves out of poverty. And hundreds of millions entered the middle class. A hundred years ago, people were fortunate to live until their 40s. Today, on average, they can expect to live into their 70s. Consider also the dramatic improvements in infant mortality rates, literacy rates, and education levels—especially for girls.”The most important catalysts of change, said Georgieva, were technology, capital accumulation and economic integration. Keynes wrote in his essay: ‘’If capital increases, say, 2 per cent per annum, the capital equipment of the world will have increased by a half in twenty years, and seven and a half times in a hundred years. Think of this in terms of material things--houses, transport, and the like.’’ Add improvements in technology to the mix, and we have a recipe for a rapid rise in living standards.If we have done so well in the last hundred years, in spite of some egregious policies, not to speak of slaughter, famine and economic and financial mayhem, surely the next 100 years will be at least as rosy? The IMF has forecast two contrasting scenarios. In the optimistic scenario, extrapolating growth rates between 1920 and today for the next 100 years, it predicts a 9-fold rise in living standards. In the pessimistic scenario, it takes the rate of growth in the hundred years before 1920 as the norm—extrapolating that to the next 100 years gives a mere doubling of living standards.
 
The news published on the date March 29, 2024 08:38 PM IST with headline  RBI likely to hold rates in April MPC meet, may wait to assess policy actions of global central banks is: 
 RBI monetary policy meeting scheduled in first week of April Churchil BhattThere is a complete lack of buzz in the bond market when it comes to the upcoming monetary policy decision, with consensus for another one of those predictable, status quo policies. But predictable lacks excitement, predictable is boring. Yet, predictability is what policymakers often aim for, and rightly so. Anyway, at least for the time being, the narrative driving bond yields in India is anything but policy rates.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdJames Carville’s rather popular catchphrase of 1992, “It’s the economy, stupid.” was meant to direct the voter’s attention towards the recession in their economy. The situation today is diametrically opposite, locally and globally. Clarion calls of global recession have sunk into oblivion. So much so that the most widely anticipated US recession may not ever arrive. Germany, the UK and a few other economies flirted briefly with negative growth but failed to get much attention. Uncle Sam’s economy, on the other hand, is growing strong, almost oblivious to the Federal Reserve’s restrictive monetary policy.There is also a case of global inflation reacting a bit too slowly to central bank tightening, especially on the services side. Over the last couple of months, the world has discovered that the last mile in the fight against inflation is a long-drawn one. Consequently, prospects of rate cuts have been delayed, though not yet derailed. As a result, we have witnessed lots of volatility in global bond yields, but not so much in India.Also read: HDFC Bank raises new home loan rates even as repo rate stays steady. Here’s why
 
The news published on the date March 29, 2024 06:27 PM IST with headline  Boeing heard the warnings. It just didn't listen is: 
 Boeing executives must not have listened and the 737 Max crashes apparently weren’t a sufficiently loud wake-up call. The strange thing about Boeing Co’s crisis is that so many people saw it coming — and tried to stop it. The planemaker’s safety problems have been obvious since two 737 Max jets crashed in late 2018 and early 2019, killing 346 people. Boeing’s engineers were warning managers of potential quality problems as far back as 2001. But Boeing executives must not have listened and the 737 Max crashes apparently weren’t a sufficiently loud wake-up call.So far this year, a panel has blown off a Boeing plane in dramatic fashion, both the chairman and chief executive officer said they are stepping down and the company’s share price has tumbled 27 percent. So why haven’t those occupying the C-Suite heeded the engineers flagging safety issues? Why did they — according to whistleblowers — silence and ignore those employees? These are the most pressing questions for Boeing’s incoming leadership team. Without clear answers, the new executives will be doomed to repeat the mistakes of their predecessors.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMost leaders of manufacturing companies live in fear of being blindsided by a serious safety issue. Perhaps that’s why business schools have devoted so much time worrying about how leaders can encourage employees to speak up about problems.But Boeing’s problem isn’t one of speaking up. It’s one of listening up. That puts the onus squarely on senior leaders. Amy Edmondson, a professor at Harvard Business School and author of Right Kind of Wrong: The Science of Failing Well, says hearing employees requires two things. First, interpersonal skills — “listening to learn, asking follow-up questions, walking down the ladder of inference so that ultimately both members of the conversation have learned something.” And second, systems that force those conversations to happen on a regular basis.Those systems could take a number of forms, says James Detert, a professor at the University of Virginia’s Darden School of Business and the author of Choosing Courage: The Everyday Guide to Being Brave at Work. At the extreme end are whistleblower hotlines, anonymous complaint processes and organizational ombudsmen. More routine measures include skip-level meetings and lunch chats with management.
 
The news published on the date March 29, 2024 06:13 PM IST with headline  A TikTok ban wouldn’t end influencers’ dreams. Maybe it should is: 
 A ban of TikTok wouldn’t kill the influencer dream — they could just pivot to a different platform. Of all the many kinds of TikTok users in the US — the casual consumer, the follower of viral content, the obsessed fan — the most famous is probably the influencer. And all the kids these days hoping to become famous on social media could be just the lobbying force TikTok needs as it implores its users to call their representatives in Washington to fight a ban: It’s their livelihoods, after all, that are on the line.Of course, a ban of TikTok wouldn’t kill the influencer dream — they could just pivot to a different platform. But it might be better for everyone if it did.I write as someone who made a portion of my living as an influencer years before TikTok existed. Obviously, to Gen Z — and certainly to Gen Alpha — I’m just an old millennial wagging my finger. (Granted, I did just use the phrase “kids these days,” so the charge isn’t entirely off base!) What gives me pause about the TikTok lobbying campaign isn’t the app itself — I don’t use it — but rather the notion that a career as an influencer, whatever that means, is something to strive for. I know the compromises that sometimes need to be made as you mine your personal life for content, and how hard it can be to draw boundaries with online followers who engage in parasocial relationships with you.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOpening the door to potentially millions of people to comment on your life choices is a vulnerable act, especially since you can’t take back what you’ve already shared. Electing to be public about your romantic relationships, finances, mental health, family dynamics and parenting style means allowing strangers to feel personally involved and affected by your choices. It can also lead to compromising your real-life relationships for the sake of your online content and leveraging other people’s lives and narratives without their explicit consent.One life lesson that’s hard to fully embrace in your teens and 20s is just how much you will change with each passing decade. As your life unfolds, your interests, opinions and values will evolve. This isn’t to say your 33-year-old self will dislike the person you were at 23. But that 33-year-old will almost certainly cringe at some of what’s in the 23-year-old’s journal.Now imagine that journal is a video — and it’s online for everyone to see, in perpetuity. And then think about what it would mean if your entire brand and business were built on the personality and opinions you had at 23.
 
The news published on the date March 29, 2024 06:35 PM IST with headline  The Reading List: March 29, 2024 is: 
 It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. In a world strapped for time, we thought you may find it useful to have a selection of articles we read this past week. It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. Occasionally, we may stray from these subjects.These links may be from external websites we frequent o
 
The news published on the date March 29, 2024 01:39 PM IST with headline  Pakistan needs to get India's 'Yes' to resume trade is: 
 India Pakistan Pakistani Finance Minister Ishaq Dar raised more than a few eyebrows last week when he said — almost as an aside — that his country’s new government would “seriously look into matters of trade with India”. A resumption of trade would be something of a climbdown for Pakistan, which cut off economic ties when Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi unilaterally withdrew Kashmir’s special constitutional status in 2019. Until now, Pakistani leaders have insisted they wouldn’t restore relations until the decision was reversed.Dar’s statement should not come as a complete surprise. His party, the Pakistan Muslim League-N, has a very particular class basis: It’s an alliance between the semi-urban petty bourgeoisie and large industrialists such as its leader, former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif. These constituencies have always seen the benefits — for themselves and for Pakistan — of normalizing trade ties with a large and growing India.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThose gains are potentially substantial, especially for a country as desperate for hard currency as Pakistan is today. The World Bank estimated in 2018 that Pakistan’s exports could increase by as much as 80% — about $25 billion at that point — if trade with India reached its potential.At this point, Pakistan simply can’t afford to forego billions of dollars. Its economy is on life support, stumbling from handout to handout. It just managed to secure the last tranche of a $3 billion bailout from the International Monetary Fund, and Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif — Nawaz’s brother — indicated that more money would soon be needed. Without further cash, he said, restoring macroeconomic stability would be impossible.The problem is that Pakistan needs India far more than India needs Pakistan. The Indian economy is stable and India remains deeply reluctant to open its markets to other developing countries who might put local producers out of business.
 
The news published on the date March 29, 2024 12:28 PM IST with headline  Business in the Week Ahead: April 1-5, 2024 is: 
 The Reserve Bank of India’s Monetary Policy Committee will meet on April 3-5, 2024 FY24 has been a remunerative year for investors. The Nifty 50 index gained about 28 percent in the last one year. The broader benchmark Nifty 500 index rose 39 percent, reflecting widespread gains in stock prices. The sharp rally in mid cap and small cap shares followed by the fall towards the end of the year has made investors cautious. Experts warn market returns can moderate from here on unless earnings measure up.FY25 will begin with updat
 
The news published on the date March 29, 2024 02:17 PM IST with headline  India keen on trade deals with Britain, Oman early in PM Modi's probable third term: Report is: 
 India keen on trade deals with Britain, Oman early in PM Modi's probable third term: Report Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to prioritise completion of free trade deals with Britain and Oman in the first 100 days of the next government if he wins upcoming elections as opinion polls predict, two government sources said.Modi has asked Indian ministries to set annual goals for the next five years that will fit into a 100-day action plan as he chalks out a strategy to fuel further growth in Asia's third-largest economy.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAmong its goals for the 100-day plan, the trade ministry aims to feature the pacts with Britain and Oman, as talks on both deals are in their final stages, said the sources, who have direct knowledge of the discussions.They sought anonymity as details of the plan are private.This month Modi identified integrating India into world trade as a key priority area in talks with senior government officials, according to a document seen by Reuters.
 
The news published on the date March 29, 2024 11:11 AM IST with headline  Indian economy in 'severe distress' but BJP 'doctors' don't understand: Chidambaram is: 
 Indian economy in 'severe distress' but BJP 'doctors' don't understand: Chidambaram Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Thursday claimed that the Indian economy is in "severe distress" and alleged "the so-called doctors of the BJP" do not care.In a post on X, the former finance minister said the BJP claims that the Indian economy is in robust health in 2023-24, but has no explanation why net foreign direct investment (FDI) inflows have dropped by 31 per cent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFDI is a measure of the confidence that foreign investors have in a country, the government and its policies, he pointed out.Such confidence has declined sharply in 2023-24, Chidambaram said."BJP gives certificates to itself. The good certificate must come from foreign and Indian investors. Indian investors have expressed no confidence in the policies of the BJP government during the last three years," he said.
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 11:41 PM IST with headline  Oil prices up more than $1 a barrel on tighter supply outlook is: 
 Oil prices up more than $1 a barrel on tighter supply outlook Oil prices rose by more than $1 a barrel on Thursday, after falling for two consecutive sessions, on the prospect of supplies given the OPEC+ producer alliance is widely expected to stay the course on its current production cuts.Brent crude futures for May were up $1.30, or 1.5%, at $87.39 a barrel at 1:28 p.m. EDT (1728 GMT). The more actively traded June contract rose $1.22, or 1.4%, to $86.43 at 1:28 p.m. The May contract expires on Thursday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdU.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures for May delivery were up $1.43, or 1.8%, at $82.78 a barrel.Both benchmarks were up more than 2% on the week and were on track to finish higher for a third consecutive month.In the prior session, oil prices had come under pressure from last week's unexpected rise in U.S. crude oil and gasoline inventories, driven by an increase in crude imports and sluggish gasoline demand, according to Energy Information Administration data.
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 11:35 PM IST with headline  Stocks flat as strong quarter nears end; yen on intervention watch is: 
 Stocks flat as strong quarter nears end; yen on intervention watch A gauge of global share markets was little changed on Thursday as it headed for its second straight quarter of solid gains, while a strong dollar kept the yen near its weakest in decades amid the threat of intervention from Japanese authorities.Wall Street's main stock indexes also showed minimal change and markets broadly were largely rangebound ahead of Friday's much-anticipated U.S. personal consumption expenditures (PCE) price index data, a closely watched inflation measure. Few markets will be open to assess and respond to the fresh data, however, given the long Easter weekend in many countries.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"People are probably a little cautious about positioning ahead of PCE," said Sameer Samana, senior global market strategist at the Wells Fargo Investment Institute."For a lot of people today will be the last day of the week, they are probably squaring positions for the quarter, for the month."Heightened focus was on the yen, which last weakened 0.05% against the greenback to 151.35 per dollar, having slid to a 34-year low of 151.975 in the previous session.
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 11:21 PM IST with headline  Govt updates list of banks authorised to import gold, silver during FY25 is: 
 Govt updates list of banks authorised to import gold, silver during FY25 The government on Thursday updated the list of banks authorised to import gold and silver during 2024-25. As per the list, 11 banks, including HDFC Bank and ICICI Bank, have been authorised by the Reserve Bank of India to import gold and silver for 2024-25 with effect from April 1.The authorisation will be valid up to March 31 next year. "List of banks authorised to import gold/silver…has been updated," the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) said in a public notice.Story continues below AdvertisementThree banks — Indian Overseas Bank, Punjab National Bank, and Union Bank of India — have authorised by the RBI to import only gold for 2024-25 with effect from April 1 this year. Gold imports rose 38.76 per cent to USD 44 billion during April-February this fiscal.However, silver imports dipped 11.53 per cent to USD 4.62 billion during the period
 
The news published on the date March 29, 2024 03:01 AM IST with headline  Gold rises towards best month in more than a year, US data in focus is: 
 Gold rises towards best month in more than a year, US data in focus Gold prices climbed on Thursday and were set to log their best month in over a year, bolstered by strong safe-haven demand, U.S. interest rate cut expectations and central bank buying.Spot gold gained 0.5% to $2,204.99 per ounce as of 10:20 a.m. EDT (1420 GMT), eyeing its best month since November 2022 gaining around 8% so far, and a second straight quarterly rise. U.S. gold futures edged 0.7% higher to $2,204.80.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhile there are some indications that inflation is running hotter than policymakers would like, that doesn't necessarily explain the high valuations for gold right now, said Everett Millman, chief market analyst with Gainesville Coins."Maybe it has a bit to do with the fact that there are still major geopolitical tensions globally," including in Gaza and Ukraine, as well as trade uncertainty, which could push investors to turn to gold as a neutral reserve asset, Millman said.Gold hit a record high last week after the U.S. Federal Reserve anticipated three rate cuts in 2024. Traders are currently pricing in a 64% chance of a June rate cut, according to CME's FedWatch tool..
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 06:20 PM IST with headline  US economic growth for last quarter is revised up slightly to a healthy 3.4% annual rate is: 
 US economic growth for last quarter is revised up slightly to a healthy 3.4% annual rate The U.S. economy grew at a solid 3.4% annual pace from October through December, the government said Thursday in an upgrade from its previous estimate.The government had previously estimated that the economy grew at a 3.2% annual rate last quarter.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Commerce Department's revised measure of the nation's gross domestic product, the total output of goods and services, confirmed that the economy decelerated from its sizzling 4.9% rate of expansion in the July-September quarter.But last quarter's growth was still a solid performance, coming in the face of higher interest rates and powered by growing consumer spending, exports and business investment in buildings and software. It marked the sixth straight quarter in which the economy has grown at an annual rate above 2%.For all of 2023, the U.S. economy, the world's biggest, grew 2.5%, up from 1.9% in 2022. In the current January-March quarter, the economy is believed to be growing at a slower but still decent 2.1% annual rate, according to a forecasting model issued by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta.
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 05:56 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Will M&As be the flavour of 2024? is: 
 - Dear Reader,Corporate confidence is on the upswing. Mega mergers and acquisitions (M&As) have hogged media headlines globally in the March quarter of 2024 (Q1 CY24).Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn the past two years, frenzied activity was witnessed in the private equity and venture capital deals and in the initial public offering (IPO) markets. But there was a slump in M&A activity across the world and across industries, with deals ticked plunging to a decadal low.The rebound comes as a pleasant surprise, with the global M&A value in Q1CY24 rising 30 per cent year-on-year (yoy) to $690 billion. According to data from the London Stock Exchange quoted in this FT article, the number of blockbuster deals worth at least $10 billion saw a marked increase to 11 in Q1 CY24 from 5 in Q1 CY23.The sudden turnaround in sentiment comes because of several factors -- financial liquidity, a vibrant capital market, healthy corporate balance sheets and, more importantly, hope that the cost of money is on its way down as interest rates ease. Investment bankers point to a higher degree of engagement in recent months, among companies, investors and financial institutions.
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 04:30 PM IST with headline  Mutual funds to keep buying state bonds as yields to come off, fund managers say is: 
 Mutual funds to keep buying state bonds as yields to come off, fund managers say Indian mutual funds are likely to continue swapping the central government debt on their books with high-yielding state government bonds after active purchases over the last few days, four fund managers said on Thursday."Mutual funds likely sold 10-year government bond and got into state debt, as yield spread of around 40 basis points is still decent," said Avnish Jain, head of fixed income at Canara Robeco Asset Management.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdJain expects mutual funds to continue with this switch in the next quarter amid expectations that state bond yields will slip when compared with central bonds.Mutual funds have net sold central government bonds worth 143 billion rupees ($1.72 billion) over the last seven sessions, including a record single-session sale of more than 60 billion rupees on Monday, data showed.The sale has coincided with record debt auctions from states, which raised an aggregate of 1.29 trillion rupees via three debt auctions.
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 04:25 PM IST with headline  US cryptocurrency ETF inflows pick up as bitcoin price recovers is: 
 US cryptocurrency ETF inflows pick up as bitcoin price recovers Inflows into the nine recently launched exchange-traded funds (ETFs) tied to bitcoin have resumed their upward trajectory this week after the cryptocurrency's price bounced back from its dip last week."The resumption in bitcoin's strong performance is sparking renewed interest in the ETFs," said Todd Rosenbluth, head of research at VettaFi, an analysis firm.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe nine funds that made their debut in January pulled in nearly $1 billion in assets in the first two days of this week, according to data from BitMEX Research. Wednesday's flows data will be available on Thursday morning.But the leadership has shifted from BlackRock's iShares Bitcoin Trust to the Fidelity Wise Origin Bitcoin Fund. The latter attracted $540.9 million in assets Monday and Tuesday, more than double the $197.7 million BlackRock's fund drew in the same period, BitMEX data showed.The one fund that continues to buck this trend is the Grayscale Bitcoin Trust, which existed as a publicly traded trust before it converted into an ETF on the same day the other nine ETFs launched. It has seen steady outflows since then, regardless of bitcoin's price movements. In the first two days of this week, those outflows reached $562.4 million.
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 04:13 PM IST with headline  Rupee falls 6 paise to settle at 83.39 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee falls 6 paise to settle at 83.39 against US dollar The rupee depreciated 6 paise to settle at 83.39 (provisional) against the US dollar on Thursday due to a strengthening greenback against major rivals overseas and rising crude oil prices in the international markets.However, a firm trend in domestic equity markets and recent foreign fund inflows supported the domestic currency, forex traders said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 83.32 and oscillated between the intra-day peak of 83.30 and the lowest level of 83.40 against the greenback. The local unit finally settled at 83.39 (provisional), registering a loss of 6 paise from its previous close.On Wednesday, the rupee declined 4 paise to close at 83.33 against the US dollar.Meanwhile, the dollar index, which gauges the greenback's strength against a basket of six currencies, was trading 0.34 per cent higher at 104.42.
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 05:12 PM IST with headline  India to send teams to Chile seeking lithium and copper assets: Report is: 
 India to send teams to Chile seeking lithium and copper assets: Report India will send two delegations next month to Chile to scout for lithium and copper resources, a government source said, as rapid economic expansion and New Delhi's efforts to speed up the energy transition stoke demand for critical minerals.Chile is a key target as it is the world's biggest supplier of copper and the second-biggest producer of lithium, which are essential for electric vehicle batteries and renewable energy systems in the push away from fossil fuels.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAs part of India's drive to explore overseas for mineral assets, state firms National Aluminium Company, Hindustan Copper and unlisted Mineral Exploration and Consultancy have set up a company called Khanij Bidesh India (KABIL)."KABIL has to send a delegation to Chile in April," said the source, who did not wish to be named as details of the plan have not been made public."We are interested in buying assets. We are trying to facilitate private and government-owned companies to acquire assets in other countries as well."
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 05:12 PM IST with headline  MGNREGS wage rates revised, hikes range between 4-10% for different states is: 
 MGNREGS wage rates revised, hikes range between 4-10% for different states Wages under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme have been revised, with hikes ranging between four and 10 per cent for different states.Haryana has the highest wage rate for unskilled workers under the scheme at Rs 374 a day, while Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland have the lowest at Rs 234, according to a notification.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe wage rate in three panchayats of Sikkim -- Gnathang, Lachung and Lachen -- is Rs 374 a day.The wage revision under the scheme was notified by the Union rural development ministry on March 27 after clearance from the Election Commission as the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) is in force for the Lok Sabha polls.The increases have been made on the 2023 wage rates under scheme that is aimed at enhancing livelihood security of households in rural areas by providing at least 100 days of guaranteed wage employment in a financial year to every household whose adult members volunteer to do unskilled manual work.
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 05:39 PM IST with headline  Indian economy can grow at 8% till 2047, says Subramanian is: 
 Indian economy can grow at 8% till 2047, says Subramanian Indian economy can grow at 8 per cent till 2047, if the country can redouble the good policies that it has implemented over the last 10 years and accelerate reforms, India's executive director at International Monetary Fund (IMF) Krishnamurthy Venkata Subramanian said on Thursday.Subramanian further said that clearly 8 per cent growth target is ambitious, because India has not grown consistently at 8 per cent before, but it is achievable.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"So, the basic idea is that with the kind of growth that India has registered in the last 10 years, if we can redouble the good policies that we have implemented over the last 10 years and accelerate the reforms, then India can grow at 8 per cent from here on till 2047," he said at the Times Now Summit.India's economy grew at better-than-expected 8.4 per cent in the final three months of 2023, logging the fastest pace in the past one-and-a-half years.The growth rate in October-December helped take the estimate for the current fiscal to 7.6 per cent.
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 07:27 PM IST with headline  Currency Markets: A decline in the Euro to parity with the Dollar beckons is: 
 The euro has held up remarkably well against the dollar. Despite the euro zone having lower official interest rates and a notably softer economy than the US, the euro has held up remarkably well against the dollar. The foreign exchange market’s most popular currency pair trades not just in line its $1.085 average of the past year but within reach of the $1.11 five-year mean. The common currency, however, can’t defy gravity forever — so a return toward parity with the greenback looks more likely than not over the course of this year.At about 6.6 percent, the exchange rate’s volatility is the lowest it’s been since November 2021, having fallen from nearly 11 percent a year ago and illustrating how becalmed the market has become. This peaceful state may prove transient; given that rate-cutting cycles and recessions tend to hit the weaker side hardest, the euro looks increasingly vulnerable.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe two main drivers of currency values are relative central bank interest rates and respective growth outlooks Both are fading faster in Europe than stateside. It's not just about absolute measures, but how those respective differences contract or widen that typically influence the foreign exchange market. On both measures, the US position looks superior, with the dollar also underpinned by its status as the world’s reserve currency.One other salient factor is investor positioning. Bank of New York Mellon Corp.’s proprietary iFlow system tracks its global custody client holdings which, worth $46 trillion, are the world's biggest. On balance, clients remain overweight in euros. Geoffrey Yu, the bank’s senior strategist expects euro-dollar parity to return, not just due to fundamental economic and monetary reasons but because investors are shifting rapidly from being extremely long of euros. An exodus out of the common currency amid the energy-price shock following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine saw it fall below parity with the dollar for most of the final months of 2022. Asset owners had shifted steadily back into euros over the last 18 months but their enthusiasm is waning. Yu reckons holding euros has been used by investors as a counterbalance against too much exposure to better-performing US markets. But risk-on assets such as US tech stocks are increasingly seen as one-way surefire bets, while for risk-off safety a 5.4 percent yield on US Treasury bills is hard to beat. Being overweight euros may no longer be the optimal choice.
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 01:01 PM IST with headline  Boeing Crisis: Time for India to step into aircraft manufacturing as demand soars is: 
 Time may be ripe for India to foray into making large aircraft. India has to enter the business of building commercial passenger aircraft, not just the small craft that it is planning to build in collaboration with Embraer, Brazil’s maker of regional airliners. This is essential for India’s own unconstrained growth, and for the world to have a non-Chinese alternative, when it comes to additional suppliers of large passenger aircraft.In 2023, Boeing forecast global demand for an additional 42,600 commercial jets over the next 20 years, a large share of the additional demand coming from Asia. Right now, the world depends on the global duopoly of Boeing and Airbus in the manufacture of large passenger aircraft to meet this demand.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe duopoly has been demonstrably inefficient for quite some time. The time between placing an order and receiving deliveries has been lengthening, thanks to the ever-rising demand for aircraft from fast-growing economies like China and India, in addition to the rising appetite for air travel as incomes rise in the rich world itself. Boeing’s quality problems show that it is not easy even for a company like that to expand capacity fast while maintaining quality.Trouble in the Skies Boeing’s problems that began with the inexplicable crash of its mid-sized 737 Max planes, killing 349 people aboard in two separate incidents in 2018 and 2019, and resulting in the prolonged grounding of 737 Max planes, have continued, and now resulted in the decision for three of its senior-most executives to leave, including the chairman and the chief executive officer. There is no known sorcery that would turn the sacrifice of three honcho heads into any rocketing rise in the company’s standards of quality control to the level of zero error demanded by the business of building large planes in which people fly.
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 07:54 PM IST with headline  India open to joining trade blocs with China if its economy is WTO compliant, trade minister says is: 
 India open to joining trade blocs with China if its economy is WTO compliant, trade minister says India is open to being a part of trading blocs which include China if Beijing ensures its economy is open, transparent, and complies with the rules of the World Trade Organisation, India's trade minister Piyush Goyal said at a media event on Thursday
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 11:00 AM IST with headline  Malaysia to request additional 500,000 metric tons of white rice from India is: 
 Malaysia to request additional 500,000 metric tons of white rice from India Malaysia will submit an request to India to procure an additional 500,000 metric tons of white rice, its agriculture minister said.The request would be in addition to the 170,000 tons of white rice India has previously allocated to Malaysia for the year. India, the world's biggest rice exporter, had restricted shipments to offset inflation and ensure food security.Story continues below AdvertisementAccording to state-run rice importer Bernas, Malaysia's annual rice consumption is 2.5 million metric tons, with an average imported supply of 750,000 tons."The government will send an official request to India through diplomatic channels shortly," Agriculture Minister Mohamad Sabu said in a Facebook post late on Wednesday, following a meeting with India's Foreign Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar.Mohamad said Malaysia had also submitted a request to India in January for 100,000 metric tons of onions through a government-to-government arrangement
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 09:02 AM IST with headline  Start-up Street: Royalty payments – a new way to finance or fleece start-ups? is: 
 - In the latest season of Shark Tank India (Season 3), a new phenomenon has emerged: investors (aka Sharks) are demanding royalty, much like celebrities do and in line with what’s been happening in the US edition. This is over and above an equity stake for their investment.According to an analysis made of Shark Tank India (including Season 3 till the completion of 40 episodes), Season 1 saw 115 pitches (65 got funded), Season 2 – 165 (10
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 07:58 PM IST with headline  Oil falls for second day as US crude inventories surge is: 
 Oil falls for second day as US crude inventories surge Oil prices fell for a second day on Wednesday on surging U.S. stockpiles and signs the OPEC+ producer group is unlikely to change its output policy at a technical meeting next week.Brent crude futures for May dropped 70 cents, or 0.8%, to $85.55 a barrel by 1258 GMT while the more actively traded June contract was down 61 cents, or 0.7%, at $85.02. The May contract expires on Thursday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdU.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures for May delivery fell 59 cents, or 0.7%, to $81.03. Both benchmarks had fallen by more than $1 in earlier trading.Prices have retreated since climbing to their highest since October last week and remain about 3% above the average closing price in the first week of March.A sharp rise in U.S. crude inventories and expectations for potential inaction by OPEC+ next week prompted further "unwinding" in oil prices as profit-taking accelerates after the mid-March rally, said IG market strategist Jun Rong Yeap.
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 05:38 PM IST with headline  Ukraine War: German refusal to send Taurus missiles is emboldening Putin is: 
 Olaf Scholz is the center of concern. (Source: Bloomberg) For more than two years, Vladimir Putin’s bluster, blame and threats of escalation have been driven by a singular goal: deterring and discouraging Western support for Ukraine. Worryingly, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz is giving Putin reasons to think his tactics are working.After stalling for months, Scholz rejected Ukraine’s request for Germany’s long-range Taurus missile system. The decision reflects Scholz’s political sensitivities and an overarching German concern about escalating the conflict with Russia. Yet by sowing confusion and alienating allies, Scholz’s handling of the matter is likely only to further embolden Putin and endanger Europe’s security.The Taurus missiles would doubtless boost Ukraine’s ability to strike Russian supply lines and better defend against the kind of attacks on cities and vital infrastructure the country is again experiencing. Two similar long-range cruise missiles, the UK-supplied Storm Shadow and the French Scalp, have proved highly effective, notably in helping to take out about a third of Russia’s Black Sea fleet. Limited numbers, and their high unit cost, have forced Ukraine to ration their use. The Taurus would boost that stock, offer comparable or greater range, and is a weapon that is highly resistant to detection and jamming attempts.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdScholz has contended that sending the missiles would require deploying German soldiers to Ukraine — a claim disputed by members of his own coalition and some in the military. A leaked conversation about the Taurus by German air force officers (held over an insecure Webex line and published by Russia), and Scholz’s own loose lips, angered Germany’s closest allies.Meanwhile, Scholz has turned down British offers to send more Storm Shadows and backfill UK stock with Taurus missiles. That may be out of concern that giving away the weapons and data systems they rely on will erode the already diminished capabilities of the Bundeswehr, Germany’s military. A recently released annual report on the state of the armed forces found alarming shortfalls in personnel and weapons, as well as a lack of leadership and training.
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 08:02 PM IST with headline  US: Applying Sahm recession rule to individual states is a mistake is: 
 The patterns in unemployment across states reveal the important role of immigrants in re-balancing of the labour market. The United States has been under a “recession warning” for two years now. And after a brief lull as we entered 2024, the alarms are sounding again. It’s not the usual suspects of an inverted Treasury market yield curve or low consumer and business sentiment. Instead, some economists worry that the rising unemployment rate in several states means a recession is coming - or even here already.The basis for these warnings is a highly accurate recession indicator I developed that has become known as the Sahm rule. As I have explained before, the premise is simple. If the three-month average of the unemployment rate (the monthly rate often bounces around too much) is half a percentage point or more above its low in the prior 12 months, the economy is in a recession. Applying the logic of the rule to individual states would reveal that 20 of them should be in a recession, right? After all, these states account for more than 40 percent of the US labour force and includes California, which alone has 11 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlthough this may appear dire, the increase in unemployment rates stem partly from the strength of the economy the past few years, strength that has attracted much needed immigration to meet the demands of a hot labour market. According to the Congressional Budget Office, net immigration totaled 2.6 million in 2022 and 3.3 million in 2023, rising from an average of 900,000 a year from 2010 to 2019.As immigrants enter the economy, especially in large numbers, it can take them time to find work — likely even longer than US-born new entrants to the labour force. Moreover, immigrants have higher labour force participation rates overall than US-born individuals. The immigration process itself can create delays in legal employment, especially for humanitarian parolees and asylum seekers. More generally, an increase in the labour force has been long understood to be a “good” reason for why the unemployment rate temporarily rises as new workers find jobs.Indeed, the national unemployment rate drifted higher, from 3.5 percent in July to 3.9 percent in February, along with increased immigration and other new entrants to the labour force, such as women, people of color, and people with disabilities. However, immigrants are not evenly spread across the country, so the national drift upward in unemployment has been more pronounced in certain states. The three with highest immigrant share in their state population — California (27 percent), New Jersey (24 percent), and New York (27 percent) — have some of the largest increases in unemployment. They also account for 20 percent of the US labour force.
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 05:10 PM IST with headline  Central bank keen to further build up record high FX reserves, say sources is: 
 Central bank keen to further build up record high FX reserves, say sources India's central bank will keep building its forex reserves as it seeks to build larger buffers, and strong inflows into the country's equity and debt markets give it an opportunity to do so, two sources familiar with the bank's thinking said.The Reserve Bank of India's absorption of dollar inflows will indirectly prevent a sharp appreciation of the rupee despite high growth in the economy and a positive balance of payments, analysts said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) FX reserves rose to a record high of $642.49 billion as of March 15."Reserves are just about adequate as per most of RBI's internally-monitored metrics while they are slightly below adequate on a couple of them. Exercise of building reserves will continue," a senior source aware of the RBI's thinking said.RBI did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 04:35 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Record MF inflow -- a boon or bane? is: 
 A significant uptick in investments over the past six months compared to the preceding period. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe robust performance of the Indian market, in contrast to many global counterparts, can be attributed to domestic investors. Each downturn has been met with purchases from these investors, countering the selling pressure from foreign counterparts.According to reports, equity mutual fund (MF) schemes have experienced a significant uptick in investments over the past six months compared to the preceding period. During the past six months leading up to February 2024, net lump sum inflows totalled Rs 46,200 crore. Notably, February 2024 recorded the highest inflow of Rs 11,500 crore through lump sum investments, marking the highest figure since March 2022.This news can be interpreted in two ways. First, in a bull market, investments tend to increase as the market ascends, as evidenced by the past six months' performance, during which the Nifty index exhibited a robust 13 percent return.
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 03:55 PM IST with headline  Rupee falls 7 paise to close at 83.36 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee falls 7 paise to close at 83.36 against US dollar The rupee declined by 7 paise to close at 83.36 (provisional) against the US dollar on Wednesday, tracking a strong American currency against major rivals overseas and weak Asian peers.However, a surge in domestic markets and a decline in crude oil prices cushioned the downside, forex traders said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 83.33 and touched an intraday low of 83.45 against the greenback. The local unit finally settled at 83.36 (provisional) against the dollar, registering a loss of 7 paise from its previous close.On Tuesday, the rupee recovered from all-time low levels and appreciated 32 paise to close at 83.29 against the US dollar.According to Anuj Choudhary Research Analyst, Sharekhan by BNP Paribas, the Indian rupee depreciated on Wednesday on strong US dollar and importer demand for US dollar. Weak Asian currencies also weighed on the rupee.
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 02:44 PM IST with headline  What do investors from the west love about the Indian economy | Samiran Chakraboraty, Managing Director, Citigroup Interview
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 02:18 PM IST with headline  China’s flight suspensions are bad for Singapore ties is: 
 Continued comity between China and Singapore could start to fracture if minor links break down. At first glance, the suspension of flights to two Chinese cities doesn’t look like a big deal for Singapore Airlines Ltd. After all, Chongqing and Chengdu aren’t major routes for the renowned carrier that boasts 130 destinations around the world, but the move could put a dampener on one of the strongest friendships in the region.From March 31, services between the city-state and China’s fourth and sixth largest metropolises will be halted less than five months after they began, the Straits Times reported citing a company spokesperson, who declined to elaborate. The airline didn’t receive approval from the Civil Aviation Administration of China, the second time in a year that the company’s flights to the country have been interrupted by regulatory uncertainty, the Chinese-language Singapore daily Lianhe Zaobao reported.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdLast year, Korean Air Lines Co and Asiana Airlines Inc started severing routes to China. Those cuts were in part mandated by a planned merger between the two carriers, but also came amid increased tensions between the countries and ongoing limits imposed by China, including restrictions on group tourism. Air China Ltd or Chongqing Airlines Co could pick up the vacated slots left by the recent suspension, Bloomberg Intelligence estimates.Singapore Airlines will be fine. The two cities accounted for just 1 percent of its scheduled China seats in the first quarter, Bloomberg Intelligence analysts Tim Bacchus and Eric Zhu wrote. The suspension, which so far only applies to the summer and autumn flight seasons, may be temporary, they wrote.But the cancellations and the lack of clarity for why don’t augur well for close links between China and one of its friendliest regional neighbours. As Asian nations including Japan, South Korea and the Philippines grow wary of Beijing’s expansion, Singapore has stood solid.
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 05:39 PM IST with headline  Germany is Europe’s sick man, but others are coughing is: 
 Optimism that a recession can be avoided is being tempered by anemic investment and productivity growth. Germany, the sick man of Europe, is about to end a quarter it would rather forget. The first three months of 2024 probably marked its second straight quarter of economic contraction, and for the full year it’s expected to deliver little to no growth. Its industrial powerhouse has become a liability, with demand still subdued, and a deglobalising world has robbed it of levers like Chinese exports, cheap Russian gas and a dependable US security guarantee.The new worry is the coughing sound coming from elsewhere in the euro zone. Economies like trade-dependent Netherlands and Ireland have been big drivers of European growth in recent years (maybe deceptively so in Ireland’s case), but now they’re stalling. France, whose demand-ledeconomy usually zigs when Germany zags, is eking out meager growth despite a swelling budget deficit as higher interest rates bite. Optimism that a recession can be avoided is being tempered by anemic investment and productivity growth.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhich leaves the last big bellwether left standing — Italy, where Giorgia Meloni’s officials are defying the gloom by expecting gross domestic product to expand around 1 percent this year. That would be better than Germany, France, the Netherlands and the euro average, and would be in keeping with Italy’s outperformance since 2019 despite a history of low growth, high debt and volatile politics. Alongside the likes of Spain and Portugal, which after years of crises are enjoying higher competitiveness and export growth, according to ING research, Italy’s recovery has been a boost for Europe.The problem is there are also signs of ill health, or what Italian Finance Minister Giancarlo Giorgetti recently called a “stomach ache.” He was referring to the Superbonus, a tax credit for eco-friendly home renovations worth 110 percent of their cost, which brought a big sugar rush for residential investment and played a significant fillip in Italy after the pandemic. Financiere de la Cite economist Nicolas Goetzmann estimates the superbonus — worth a staggering €107 billion ($116 billion) in eligible investment — added about 15 times more to euro-area GDP as Italian construction fixed investments than the entire German economy since end-2019.What’s given Giorgetti indigestion is not so much the growth but the hit to public finances — it’s a tax credit, after all — which is why the superbonus is being pared back after contributing to a budget deficit of 7.2 percent last year. And without it, Bloomberg Economics expects growth momentum to keep losing steam, as the above chart shows. “The economic benefits are in the past, while the fiscal cost is in the future,” says HSBC Holdings Plc economist Fabio Balboni.
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 01:42 PM IST with headline  US small-caps suffer worst run against larger stocks in more than 20 years is: 
 The small-cap rally that gathered pace in the final months of 2023 has petered out this year. George Steer in New YorkUS small-cap stocks are suffering their worst run of performance relative to large companies in more than 20 years, highlighting the extent to which investors have chased megacap technology stocks while smaller groups are weighed down by high interest rates.The Russell 2000 index has risen 24 per cent since the beginning of 2020, lagging the S&P 500’s more than 60 per cent gain over the same period. The gap in performance upends
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 02:02 PM IST with headline  RBI likely to set cut-off yield for T-Bills in 6.93%-7.14% band: Poll is: 
 RBI likely to set cut-off yield for T-Bills in 6.93%-7.14% band: Poll The Indian government aims to raise an aggregate of 340 billion rupees ($4.08 billion) through the sale of 91-day, 182-day and 364-day Treasury bills on Wednesday.The Reserve Bank of India will likely set cutoff yields for the same at 6.93%, 7.14% and 7.10% respectively, according to a Reuters poll of 13 traders.Story continues below AdvertisementNote Quantum (in bln Median Min Maxrupees)91-day 100 6.93% 6.88% 6.95%182-day 150 7.14% 7.11% 7.15%364-day 90 7.10% 7.08% 7.11
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 02:26 PM IST with headline  Report claims India has 247 million households with multiple income sources is: 
 An ‘entrepreneurial household’ is defined by those behind the study as one which has more than one source of income, making it more resilient to shocks. India has 247 million 'entrepreneurial households' with a Core Transaction Value, or CTV, of $8.8 trillion as of 2022-23, according to a recent study by consulting firm Praxis.These entrepreneurial households, defined as those whose members put together have more than one source of income, will see their CTV growing to $95.2 trillion by 2042-43, estimated the report.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: Govt survey finds per capita consumption spending up 33-40% in 2022-23 from 2011-12CTV is the sum of a household's income from all sources, any borrowings, and expenditure on key heads that don't include daily living costs and discretionary spending."If you look at any major emerging economy like India, the corporate side of the world has so much to do when it comes to the upper and upper-middle class… The large institutions are satiated with the business they have to deal with and there is very little incentive for someone to completely reboot and go deeper into the smaller ticket-size businesses," said Jyotsna Krishnan, co-founder of Enmasse World. Praxis conducted the study on her behalf.
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 09:50 AM IST with headline  Rupee value, forex reserves playing well to a longer-term scenario is: 
 - HighlightsLast Friday, March 22, the rupee hit a fresh low of 83.43 to the dollarThe rupee has been on a downward journey since last December and the reserves have been moving upwardThe rupee has been depreciating as importers’ demand for dollars has been increasing in good part because of the disruption in world trade as a result of the wars in the Ukraine and PalestineLooking ahead, where are the rupee and reserves headed? The Indian economy is movin
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 09:41 AM IST with headline  What the Hurun Rich list tells us is: 
 India has the third largest number of billionaires. The ranking in the rich list largely reflects the fortunes of the stock markets HighlightsThe ranking in the rich list largely reflects the fortunes of a country’s stock marketsThe drop in the number of Chinese billionaires is the result of a sharp fall in China’s marketsThe dislodging of Beijing by Mumbai in the Hurun Rich list is an indicator of changing geopoliticsThe share of the richest 1 percent in total wealth has increased dramatically since liberalisation, under all governmentsMumbai has earned the distinction of becoming a city that has the thir
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 02:47 PM IST with headline  India’s AC market is facing supply heat is: 
 Rising competition to put strain on margins Key highlightsEvolving consumer lifestyle, increasing income levels, rising temperature driving RAC demandDomestic market for RACs is pegged around 9 million unitsLocal value addition for RACs has increased to 60-65 percent in 2023Contract manufacturers facing challenges as OEMs are setting up in-house capacitiesRAC segment revenues for both Amber Enterprises and PG Electroplast declined in 9M FY24Industry likely to have excess capacity for next 2-3 yearsThe Residential Air Conditioning (RAC) industry in India has exhibited a healthy double-digit compounde
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 03:44 PM IST with headline  The Eastern Window: What prompted the US to finally allow the UN vote for ceasefire in Gaza is: 
 Israel has been ignoring US advice about the Gaza situation. HighlightsThe US allowed the UN to pass the ceasefire resolution even as Israel is preparing a major ground assault in Gaza.Netanyahu has been ignoring US advice about the Gaza situation.Traditional allies, the US and Israel, are on a collision course.The US perception of the Muslim world may undergo some change after the latest development.The US decided to allow the United Nations to pass a resolution calling for a ceasefire in Gaza after it was convinced that Israe
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2024 11:33 PM IST with headline  Oil steadies as markets weigh Russian supply woes is: 
 Front-month Brent crude futures due to expire on Thursday were 12 cents down at $86.63 a barrel by 11:59 EDT (1559 GMT) while U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures was up 13 cents at $82.08. Oil prices were little changed on Tuesday as investors took a more mixed view toward the loss of Russian refinery capacity after recent Ukrainian attacks while a slightly weaker U.S. dollar offered some support.Front-month Brent crude futures due to expire on Thursday were 12 cents down at $86.63 a barrel by 11:59 EDT (1559 GMT) while U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures was up 13 cents at $82.08.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe more actively traded Brent futures for June were down 12 cents at $85.96.Brent rose 1.5% on Monday while WTI gained 1.6% after Russia's government ordered companies to cut output in the second quarter to meet a 9 million barrels per day (bpd) target to comply with pledges to the OPEC+ consumer group.Russia, among the top three global oil producers and one of the largest exporters of oil products, is also contending with a spate of recent attacks on its oil refineries by Ukraine and has mounted its own attacks on Ukrainian energy infrastructure.
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2024 08:50 PM IST with headline  Gold advances on weaker dollar ahead of US inflation test is: 
 Gold advances on weaker dollar ahead of US inflation test Gold prices climbed on Tuesday, buoyed by a weaker U.S. dollar, while investors waited for data due later in the week to reveal underlying inflation trends that will help gauge the Federal Reserve's interest-rate stance.Spot gold rose 0.5%, to $2,182.77 per ounce, by 09:58 a.m. EDT (1358 GMT), having jumped as much as 1.3% earlier in the session. U.S. gold futures for April delivery rose 0.3%, to $2,183.00.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe dollar index slipped 0.1%, making gold cheaper for overseas buyers."Closer to the summer, you're going to see gold go higher just with the expectation of rate cuts, unless the Fed changes stance or makes some announcement that they're taking cuts off the table, which I don't see them doing at this point," said Bob Haberkorn, senior market strategist at RJO Futures.Market focus is on the U.S. Core Personal Consumption Expenditure Price Index data [PCE] due on Friday. [FRX/]
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2024 08:42 PM IST with headline  Reddit shares surge a day after options launch, set to nearly double IPO price is: 
 Reddit shares surge a day after options launch, set to nearly double IPO price Shares of social media platform Reddit jumped 11% on Tuesday, set to extend a strong run from a day earlier following the launch of options on the stock.At current price of $67.5, more than $1 billion was set to be added to the company's market value. The stock was also on track to nearly double its IPO price of $34.Story continues below Advertisement"More bullish investors have bought options in Reddit, which is part of its early stock market success in its first full week of trading," said Jeremy Goldman, senior director of client briefings at Emarketer, formerly Insider Intelligence.The launch of options trading drew bullish bets on the stock on Monday, closing up around 30% and making it the top percentage gainer on the New York Stock Exchange."From my estimates, about 90,000 options have changed hands, possibly more," Goldman added.Current gains could also help surpass the $10 billion valuation Reddit received in a private fundraising round in 2021
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2024 05:45 PM IST with headline  Central bank to limit sharp swings in rupee after slip to record low, traders say is: 
 Central bank to limit sharp swings in rupee after slip to record low, traders say Central bank will continue to curb sharp swings in the rupee, traders said, after it fell to a record low on Friday, spurring speculation the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) may be loosening its grip on the currency.Persistent intervention by the RBI in the foreign exchange market over the past several months had dampened exchange rate volatility.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFriday's sharp decline caught traders by surprise as the rupee fell to an all-time low of 83.43 against the dollar in the closing minutes of domestic trading.While the RBI had intervened earlier in the session, its absence towards the end pushed the rupee to record lows, a senior foreign exchange trader at a state-run bank said.Traders quoted in the story declined to be named because they are not authorised to speak to the media.
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2024 07:08 PM IST with headline  Consumer expenditure data was not shared with Statistics Commission; standing committee kept in the loop is: 
 The HCES – which is crucial to updating macroeconomic indicators such as the consumer price index and establishing a new poverty line – currently in use is the one conducted in 2011-12 (July-June) after the 2017-18 HCES was shelved by the government in late 2019 due to what it termed as “data quality issues” India's statistics ministry, tasked with collecting and disseminating vital economic data, did not share the latest Household Consumer Expenditure Survey (HCES) data with the National Statistical Commission (NSC) before releasing a factsheet on the 2022-23 (August-July) HCES on February 24, according to people aware of the matter.The full report on the survey, the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation's (MoSPI) factsheet said, will be released "subsequently".Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: Demolishing the house that Mahalanobis built"If one looks at the mandate of the NSC, it is all-encompassing. But in practice, it is only an advisory body – to give advice when asked. Thus, NSC does not even know the answers to your question," Rajeeva Laxman Karandikar, chairperson of the NSC, told Moneycontrol when asked about the details of the 2022-23 HCES and when the full survey report will be released.The autonomous NSC, set up in 2006 as per the recommendations of the Rangarajan Commission, is chaired by an eminent statistician and has the status of Minister of State, with the other members at the level of central government secretaries. The NSC's mandate is to "evolve policies, priorities, and standards in statistical matters".
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 06:39 AM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Defence: Making in India for the world is: 
 Representative image Dear Reader,The government’s defence indigenisation programme has revitalised the shares of defence public sector undertakings. Most have re-rated in the past one year. The order books of Bharat Electronics and Hindustan Aeronautics have risen significantly in FY24. The focus on domestic manufacturing is also yielding export orders.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad Over the weekend, Hindustan Aeronautics signed a contract with Guyana Defence Force, Government of Guyana, to supply two Hindustan-228 commuter aircraft. As Indian companies gain manufacturing capabilities, they are pitching their products to overseas customers.In January, Cochin Shipyard received a Rs 500-crore order from a client in Europe taking its total export order book to Rs 2,688 crore. Bharat Electronics already boasts of a sizeable export order book and business. In the December 2023 quarter, the company clocked export revenue of Rs 400 crore.The locally developed Akash weapon system is being pitched for export markets, the execution of which will be done by Bharat Dynamics and Bharat Electronics. As of January, Bharat Dynamics had an export order book of Rs 2,580 crore.
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2024 02:48 PM IST with headline  Chocoholics won’t be the only victims of cocoa’s surge is: 
 Cocoa's troubles were firmly rooted in fundamentals, triggered largely by a series of crop failures in West Africa. (Representative image) In every sustained commodity price rally, there’s a moment when fundamentals — supply, demand, inventories — no longer matter. The cost of the molecules, whether in the form of energy or foodstuffs or metals, stops being a price and becomes just a number. The market ceases to be orderly and becomes unruly.It’s clear that moment has arrived for cocoa. On Monday, cocoa futures in New York closed at $9,649 a ton, gaining nearly 8 percent. In dollar terms, they surged more than $700 on the day — equal to the trading range that in the past it would have taken a year to witness.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFirst, a look at how it started. Initially, cocoa’s troubles were firmly rooted in fundamentals, triggered largely by a series of crop failures in West Africa, the region that typically produces about 75 percent of the world’s supply. There, a combination of aging trees, diseases and bad weather combined to create the largest shortfall seen in the cocoa market in more than six decades.The upshot was a brutal price rally that took cocoa to $6,000 a metric ton by February from $2,500 a year ago, surging above the 1977 record. Facing a massive deficit, the market was doing its work by sending prices high enough to curb consumption and restore the supply-and-demand equilibrium.Since then, however, prices have risen vertically, setting fresh highs almost daily. At the current pace, the $10,000-a-ton threshold could be breached before the Easter holiday starts at the end of the week.
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 02:28 AM IST with headline  RBI showing serious commitment to improve governance, transparency in finance companies, banks is: 
 RBI showing serious commitment to improve governance, transparency in finance cos, banks S&P Global Ratings on Tuesday said India's financial system regulator, the RBI, is showing serious commitment to improving governance and transparency in the sector.The recent measures by the RBI will curtail lenders' over-exuberance, enhance compliance culture, and safeguard customers, but the drawback will be higher capital costs for institutions.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRBI's measures include restraining IIFL Finance Ltd and JM Financial Products Ltd from disbursing gold loans and loans against shares, respectively, and asking Paytm Payments Bank Ltd (PPBL) to stop onboarding of new customers.In December 2020, the RBI suspended HDFC Bank from sourcing new credit card customers after repeated technological outages, S&P said.These actions are a departure from the historically nominal financial penalties imposed for breaches, it added.
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2024 01:09 PM IST with headline  The Trump machine: the inner circle preparing for a second term is: 
 - James Politi in WashingtonIn 2016, Donald Trump was the ultimate political outsider. If he wins this year’s election, he will be backed by a group of experienced former officials eager to apply his ideasWhen Donald Trump hosted Viktor Orbán at his Mar-a-Lago resort earlier this month, he lavished praise on the Hungarian prime minister as a “fantastic” leader for Europe. The evening entertainment included a “members-only” concert with tribute bands for the Beatles and Rolling Stones.But i
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2024 12:16 PM IST with headline  China’s EV and solar boom is a capitalist win for communism is: 
 If Chinese solar, wind, battery and EV manufacturers are doing well because of easy credit, it should leave clear fingerprints on their financial statements. There’s a comforting but erroneous explanation for why your solar panels, home battery and electric car are increasingly likely to be made in China.The economy is awash in easy money from state banks; its renewable manufacturers are undercutting rivals everywhere else in the world; ergo, China’s comparative advantage isn’t scale, cost efficiencies or innovative prowess, but the availability of cheap government subsidies.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn the EV industry “everybody has an endless supply of loans and support from the local government,” the Financial Times quoted Jörg Wuttke, former president of the European Union Chamber of Commerce in China, as saying in a recent article.That theory provides a compelling justification for trade restrictions. If Chinese manufacturers are only surviving thanks to a drip feed of government cash, there’s no way for overseas rivals to compete. Best, then, to use tariffs, investigations and other hurdles to exclude their products altogether, and give homegrown competitors a chance.It’s a persuasive narrative because swathes of China’s economy really do run this way. In the middle of the 2010s, all-but-forgotten Dalian Wanda Group Co, Anbang Insurance Group Co, HNA Group Co and Fosun International Ltd. went on a multi-billion-dollar shopping spree for foreign companies. The bursting of that bubble prompted another to inflate in real estate. We’re still seeing the aftereffects in every fresh gloomy headlineabout property developers China Evergrande Group, Country Garden Holdings Co, and China Vanke Co.
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2024 02:34 PM IST with headline  Mumbai is now the billionaire capital of Asia, beats Beijing: Hurun report is: 
 The meteoric rise in India’s exclusive billionaire club was led by Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani ($115 billion) and Adani Group chairman Gautam Adani ($86 billion) India’s financial capital Mumbai has now overtaken Beijing as Asia’s billionaire capital for the first time with 93 members in the exclusive rich club, according to Global Rich List 2024 published by Hurun Research Institute.According to the Shanghai-based institute, New York and London lead the cities with 119 and 97 billionaires, respectively.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMeanwhile, New Delhi also made it to the coveted list for the first time ever."Mumbai was the fastest-growing billionaire capital in the world, adding 26 in the year and taking it to third spot in the world and Asia's billionaire capital. New Delhi broke into the Top 10 for the first time," said the Hurun Global Rich List 2024.The meteoric rise in India’s exclusive billionaire club was led by Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani ($115 billion) and Adani Group chairman Gautam Adani ($86 billion), who was helped by a 33% surge in wealth. Overall, the country has added 94 people to its list, taking the total to 271 ultra-high-net-worth individuals (UHNWI), the report said, adding that it was the highest since 2013. Mumbai alone has contributed 26 to the list.
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2024 11:27 PM IST with headline  S&P ups India growth forecast to 6.8% for FY'25 is: 
 S&P ups India growth forecast to 6.8% for FY'25 S&P Global Ratings on Tuesday raised India's growth forecast for the next financial year to 6.8 per cent, but flagged restrictive interest rates as a dampener for economic growth.The Indian economy is estimated to have clocked a growth of 7.6 per cent in the current fiscal.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn November, last year, the US-based agency had projected India's growth to be 6.4 per cent in 2024-25 fiscal on robust domestic momentum."For Asian emerging market (EM) economies, we generally project robust growth, with India, Indonesia, the Philippines, and Vietnam in the lead," S&P said in its Economic Outlook for the Asia Pacific.In largely domestic demand-led economies such as India, Japan, and Australia, the impact of higher interest rates and inflation on household spending power reduced sequential GDP growth in the second half, S&P said.
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2024 10:09 AM IST with headline  Personal Finance: Three investing pointers every woman needs to know is: 
 Women are afraid of going wrong with their investments – the consequences of their investment backfiring are harsh HighlightsDBS Bank-Crisil surveyed 800 women that showed they are risk averseWomen invest nearly half of their savings in fixed depositsWomen must get professional help in managing financeThey should not ignore equities due to volatile marketsIgnoring equities would mean missing out financial goals due to low returnsAs women gain wealth, their perspective needs to change. I am amazed at the number of women who do not take charge of their investments, even though they are earning. One lad
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2024 09:14 AM IST with headline  How fit is India’s healthcare to handle future pandemics? is: 
 Representative image HighlightsThe ADB finds gaps in readiness to tackle COVID-19 even after one year into the pandemicThe ADB publication’s findings about India are not too encouraging eitherThe Global Health Security Index declined for India between 2019 and 2021In the last couple of years, India has taken several steps to tackle future pandemicsNITI Aayog is working on a programme where it can use ADB data to formulate a strategy to tackle future public health emergencyIndia, along with the res
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2024 09:11 AM IST with headline  MC Pro Inside Edge: Colgate boss has reason to smile, Cupid heartbreak for TFCI bulls, PSU oilco believers on slippery slope, penny stock promoter’s salvage operation is: 
 Grin and bear itWhen new Colgate India CEO Prabha Narasimhan met up with analysts in December 2022 soon after taking charge, most analysts came back unimpressed by the presentation. Leading brokerages rated the stock a ‘sell’ or ‘hold’, not convinced by the company’s ambitious plans to get more rural folks to brush their teeth at least once a day, and everyone in general to replace their toothbrushes more often. The stock kept crawling higher nevertheless, as som
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2024 07:53 AM IST with headline  RBI likely to hold rates steady until at least July: Poll is: 
 RBI likely to hold rates steady until at least July: Poll The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will keep interest rates unchanged until at least July, a bit longer than the U.S. central bank is expected to do so, on strong growth and still-elevated inflation, according to a firm majority of economists polled by Reuters.India's economy grew a stellar 8.4% in the fourth quarter of 2023, the fastest among major economies. Inflation, which is still close to the upper band of the central bank's 2%-6% target, does not hint at an imminent rate cut.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAll 56 economists in the March 15-22 Reuters poll expected the RBI to hold the repo rate at 6.50% at the conclusion of its April 3-5 meeting.They were, however, divided on when the first cut would come, with nine of 52 saying next quarter, 24 picking the third quarter, 17 saying the fourth quarter and the rest expecting it at a later time. Median forecasts put the rate at 6.25% by the end of September and 6.00% at the end of this year."The combination of headline inflation remaining above 5% and the strong Q4 GDP figures will likely leave Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) members cautious about cutting rates too soon," said Alexandra Hermann, a lead economist at Oxford Economics.
 
The news published on the date March 25, 2024 11:56 PM IST with headline  Oil up on supply concerns about Russian output cuts, geopolitical tensions is: 
 Oil up on supply concerns about Russian output cuts, geopolitical tensions Oil prices increased on Monday as orders from the Russian government to curb oil output, and attacks on energy infrastructure in both Russia and Ukraine offset the United Nation's demand for a ceasefire in Gaza.Brent crude futures climbed $1.05, or 1.23%, to $86.48 a barrel by 1404 EDT (1806 GMT). U.S. crude futures gained $1.10, or 1.36%, to $81.73.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBoth benchmarks have risen steadily this year, with Brent up nearly 11% and WTI up about 12.5% by Friday's close, on expectations that interest rates in major economies will come down by the summer, and geopolitical tensions in eastern Europe and the Middle East.Moscow, meanwhile, has ordered companies to reduce oil output in the second quarter to meet a production target of 9 million barrels per day (bpd) by the end of June, in line with its pledges to the producer group OPEC+, three industry sources said on Monday."Russia is committed to the OPEC+ cuts. They are looking beyond the current supply and demand fundamentals and looking at unity with OPEC+, as well as the risk of a bigger price shock further down the road," said Phil Flynn, analyst at Price Futures Group.
 
The news published on the date March 25, 2024 11:34 PM IST with headline  Outflows from Grayscale bitcoin ETF hit $1.9 billion in single week is: 
 Outflows from Grayscale bitcoin ETF hit $1.9 billion in single week Grayscale Bitcoin Trust recorded $1.9 billion in outflows last week, tipping the group of U.S. spot bitcoin exchange-traded funds (ETFs) into net outflows for the week ending March 22, according to data from BitMEX Research.While there has been buying interest in new funds from BlackRock, Fidelity Investments and others since the U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission approved the new cryptocurrency ETFs in January, it was not enough to offset selling by Grayscale holders last week, the data showed.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdInflows to the other nine ETFs launched at the same time as Grayscale's fund converted also slowed last week as the price of bitcoin was muted compared with highs it notched earlier this month.Grayscale's outflows have been due to fees significantly higher than those of its rivals, as well as selling by bankruptcy trustees, analysts said.Bryan Armour, an ETF analyst at Morningstar said that Grayscale opted to keep the management fee on its converted ETF at 1.5%, compared with 0.25% for the BlackRock fund and even lower, including fee waivers, at rivals.
 
The news published on the date March 25, 2024 07:03 PM IST with headline  Stocks flat, oil climbs as dollar cornered by yen and yuan is: 
 Stocks flat, oil climbs as dollar cornered by yen and yuan Stock markets took a breather on Monday from their record highs of recent sessions as investors looked to an abbreviated trading week, capped by key U.S. inflation data on Friday, due to the impending Easter holiday.U.S. stock index futures were slightly weaker.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMarket participants are hoping that Friday's U.S. prices data will back investor bets for a June interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve.Boeing Co was a focus on Wall Street after the planemaker said its CEO Dave Calhoun would step down by year-end amid a sprawling safety crisis.Oil benchmark Brent hovered close to $86 a barrel as hostilities intensified in the Middle East, and between Russia and Ukraine, with energy infrastructure targeted in the two-year old war.
 
The news published on the date March 25, 2024 06:53 PM IST with headline  Dollar dips as Japan and China fortify their currencies is: 
 Dollar dips as Japan and China fortify their currencies The dollar slipped on Monday, with the threat of currency intervention from Japanese authorities and a government-driven rally in China's yuan weighing on the U.S. currency.The Japanese yen was around 0.1% higher and last stood at 151.29 per dollar, having bottomed at a four-month trough of 151.86 last week that left it within striking distance of a 32-year low near 152 per dollar hit in 2022.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA rise in the yen helped push the dollar index down 0.16% to 104.26, after a weekly gain of nearly 1% last week.Japan's top currency diplomat said on Monday the yen's weakness did not reflect fundamentals, adding to the rhetoric of government officials who have stepped up warnings in recent days over the currency's decline.The yen has dropped despite the Bank of Japan hiking interest rates out of negative territory last week. Traders think rates in Japan will remain low for some time and therefore the big interest rate gap with the U.S. will stay in place, boosting the appeal of the dollar.
 
The news published on the date March 25, 2024 06:01 PM IST with headline  Gold firms as traders position for US data is: 
 Gold firms as traders position for US data Gold prices firmed on Monday as investors positioned for key economic data and comments from Federal Reserve officials this week for further confirmation on the interest rate cuts signalled by the U.S. central bank.Spot gold was up 0.3% at $2,171.42 per ounce, as of 1116 GMT, while silver rose 0.3% to $24.73.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdU.S. gold futures climbed 0.6% to $2,172.50.The weekly initial jobless claims print due on Thursday and the U.S. core personal consumption expenditure (PCE) price index data on Friday are on investors' radar. The market's reaction to the PCE data may only be seen next week on account of the Good Friday holiday."It (U.S. inflation readings) will have a significant impact. Any lower-than-expected PCE number will lead to a weaker dollar and higher gold prices and vice versa," said Kunal Shah, head of research, Nirmal Bang Commodities, Mumbai. [USD/]
 
The news published on the date March 25, 2024 05:15 PM IST with headline  Oil benchmark Brent nears $86 on heightened supply concerns is: 
 Oil benchmark Brent nears $86 on heightened supply concerns Oil benchmark Brent hovered close to $86 a barrel on Monday as hostilities intensified between Russia and Ukraine and in the Middle East.Brent crude futures climbed 40 cents to $85.83 a barrel by 1124 GMT while U.S. crude futures also gained 40 cents to $81.03.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBoth benchmarks have risen steadily this year, with Brent up nearly 11% and WTI about 12.5% by Friday's close.The upward trajectory is linked to belief that a sticky recession is being fought off, with interest rates in major economies expected to fall by the summer, while the OPEC+ group of oil producers has extended supply curbs into the second quarter.Concerns over global oil supply are being heightened, meanwhile, by attacks on Russian energy facilities and Ukrainian energy infrastructure as well as fading hopes of a ceasefire in the Israel-Hamas conflict, said Hiroyuki Kikukawa, president of NS Trading, a unit of Nissan Securities.
 
The news published on the date March 25, 2024 09:25 AM IST with headline  How Indian growth story is under attack from the West is: 
 The intensity and frequency of such attempts are going to grow further as India intends to write its own growth story (Sanghnomics is a weekly column that tracks down and demystifies the economic world view of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and organisations inspired by its ideology.)There are two developments that have taken place in the international stage that indicate the flawed framework of the West in the context of evaluating the Indian success story. These two developments are the release of the world happiness report and an article in the international publication ‘The Economist’.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWorld Happiness IndexThis index ranks countries worldwide on the Happiness index. This index is part of the World Happiness Report. This report is prepared jointly by Gallup, the Oxford Wellbeing Research Centre, the UN Sustainable Development Solutions Network, and the WHR’s Editorial Board. The report is produced under the editorial control of the WHR Editorial Board.The concept of Happiness as a measure of development and growth was pioneered by Bhutan. The criterion was altogether different at that time. And then the West took over and did with this concept as it does to most of the things that it has hijacked from the other parts of the world. The West has manipulated this criterion in such a way that the outcome can be termed as ‘ridiculous’. This year’s report reflects how forced conclusions are flaunted through this report to deflate India's success story. When the west couldn’t counter India's growth story through GDP numbers and other standard economic statistics, it started using questionable concepts like ‘Happiness Index’.
 
The news published on the date March 23, 2024 12:58 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Weekender | Roaring Twenties? is: 
 The successful soft-landing of the global economy after the pandemic and euphoric markets have led many to compare this decade with that of the 1920s Dear Reader,If the Federal Open Market Committee’s median estimate of US GDP growth as well as core inflation in Personal Consumption Expenditure (PCE) have been revised higher for 2024 and the median unemployment rate revised lower, what is the Fed signalling by sticking to its earlier prediction of a cumulative 75 basis points worth of rate cuts this year? The markets interpreted it to mean that the Fed is comfortable with inflation remaining higher for longer and lost no time in celebrating this wonderful discovery.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAs this FT story (free to read for Moneycontrol Pro subscribers) underlines, the message is that strong US economic growth will not change the central bank’s script to reduce borrowing costs substantially this year. Gold prices promptly made new highs. The icing on the cake was provided by Fed chair Powell’s message that the central bank is close to start tapering its quantitative tightening programme. The upshot: The Chicago Fed’s Adjusted National Financial Conditions Index now indicates looser financial conditions than those prevailing in February 2022, before the Fed embarked on its rate increases.It gets even better. The UK inflation is now at its lowest in almost two and a half years and Bank of England Governor Andrew Bailey said Britain is moving in the right direction to start cutting rates. And, with inflation coming down into its target range, the Swiss central bank effected a surprise rate cut this week. Small wonder that many analysts are now talking of a global rate cutting cycle getting started.And best of all, it’s happening when global growth is picking up. The latest Flash or advance PMIs for March show robust growth. On the US Flash PMI, Chris Williamson, chief business economist at S&P Global, said, “The survey data point to another quarter of robust GDP growth accompanied by sustained hiring as companies continue to report new order growth.’’ On the UK PMI, he said, “A further robust expansion of business activity ended the economy’s best quarter since the second quarter of last year.”
 
The news published on the date March 22, 2024 06:14 PM IST with headline  The Reading List: March 23, 2024 is: 
 As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. In a world strapped for time, we thought you may find it useful to have a selection of articles we read this past week. As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. Occasionally, we may stray from these subjects.These links may be from external websites we frequent o
 
The news published on the date March 22, 2024 04:57 PM IST with headline  Business in the Week Ahead (March 25-29, 2024) is: 
 A list of important data points to watch out next week. Indian Benchmark equity indices have been on the up in tandem with a global market rally after the US Federal Reserve's slightly hawkish stance comforted investors worrying about rate hikes getting kicked down the road. But news of Accenture cutting its revenue guidance due to an uncertain economic environment hit the IT sector dragging the markets down briefly. It later recovered with gains in financial services, automobile, and healthcare stocks.Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services,
 
The news published on the date March 22, 2024 03:49 PM IST with headline  Is Egypt ready for its next energy crisis?  is: 
 The issue isn't cash, it's execution. (Source: Bloomberg/Getty Images) It’s amazing the difference that $35 billion can make.Go back to the start of this year, and Egypt — home to 105 million people, and one of the world’s great crossroads of culture and trade — seemed to be teetering on the brink. Interest rates that fell as low as 8.25 percent two years earlier were surging toward their current 27.25 percent. Hot money that had temporarily plugged the country’s persistent trade deficit was stampeding for the exits, draining the central bank’s foreign exchange reserves.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSuddenly, things are looking far more healthy. A $35 billion deal that involves the United Arab Emirates underwriting a vast property development on the Mediterranean coast has revived animal spirits, as Bloomberg News wrote this week. That spend has given other donors the confidence to join in recent days: The International Monetary Fund and World Bank have promised to contribute a combined $14 billion, while the European Union will add about $8 billion in aid, loans and grants.All this cash does far too little to address the root cause of the problem, though. Like several other major emerging economies with shaky currencies, Egypt suffers from a serious energy deficit that puts a brake on its ability to grow. Unless more money is dedicated to bringing renewable investment up to the level of its neighbors, it won’t be long before it burns through the latest cash infusion.Petroleum has overtaken cereals as Egypt’s biggest import category, accounting for more than 17 percent of the gross bill in 2022. Even booming prices for gas from offshore fields in the Mediterranean have barely been sufficient to turn it into a net exporter of hydrocarbons. Of the 6.2 billion cubic feet of gas produced last year, 5.9 billion cu ft was consumed at home, more than half of it to produce heavily-subsidised electricity.
 
The news published on the date March 23, 2024 09:39 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Will Lilliput Land show its consumption power again? is: 
 Consumption would still account for more than half of the country’s gross domestic product. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndia’s consumption story is unlike any other: too promising to ignore, but too tricky to deal with. The average Indian consumer has always been on the list of top targets for international businesses. This explains why brands ranging from Apple to Ikea count India as a key market even when private consumption expenditure is expected to be a mere 3 percent in FY24.Even at its worst, consumption would still account for more than half of the country’s gross domestic product. Without a sustained growth in consumption, there is little motivation for businesses to invest and engage in private capital expenditure. After all, if you are not sure of a rise in demand for bread, you would not attempt to bake more.This is a point that HSBC analysts make in their report that addresses the current divergence between investment and consumption growth. The impressive gross domestic product (GDP) expected in FY24 (which the Reserve Bank of India hopes to be near 8 percent) is driven by investments, something that delights economists. Investment-led growth is said to reflect confidence in the consumption story. HSBC analysts believe that the third quarter GDP growth understates India’s consumption expansion and perhaps overstates investment growth. Our Chart of the Day captures this divergence and explains HSBC’s points. “Historically, investment has never climbed sustainably as a percentage of GDP while consumption falls. After all, it is the same exuberance that drives both. And in the pecking order of growth, higher consumption typically kicks in first, giving confidence to investors, who, over time, add to capacity by investing,” the HSBC report said.
 
The news published on the date March 22, 2024 06:14 PM IST with headline  India looking to Africa for critical minerals is: 
 India looking to Africa for critical minerals India is looking to Africa for minerals such as copper, cobalt and other critical minerals, while also engaging with Australia for lithium blocks, said V.L. Kantha Rao, secretary of mines, on the sidelines of an industry event on Friday."In Africa, we are exploring countries like Zambia, Namibia, Congo, and Ghana for critical minerals," he added.Story continues below AdvertisementIndia is preparing rules for the auction of offshore mineral blocks with 10 blocks ready, Rao said, adding the country aims to begin auctions this year.India will also announce the results of the first tranche of critical mineral blocks in 10 days, he said
 
The news published on the date March 22, 2024 01:08 PM IST with headline  Britain is a big tent, not a narrow tabernacle is: 
 Vaughan Gething is announced as the fifth First Minister of Wales at the Cardiff University Spark building on March 16, 2024, in Cardiff, Wales. (Source: Bloomberg/Getty Images Europe) Britain is an ethnic assimilation superpower.You could call it a diversity royal flush. With the ascension of Zambian-born Vaughan Gething as Welsh Labour leader and first minister-elect, all senior elected offices in the British Isles are held by ethnic minorities: the prime minister, Rishi Sunak is, by ethnic origin, Hindu- Punjabi; Scotland’s first minister, Humza Yousaf, is first-generation Pakistani-Punjabi; and the mayor of the global city-state that is London, Sadiq Khan, is of Pakistani heritage. It's Labour Party leader, and the next likely prime minister, Keir Starmer, who stands out as a white man with a knighthood.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRecent headlines have presented a depressing portrait of Britain as a hotbed of racism. George Galloway won the Rochdale by-election for the Workers Party by playing on racial tensions. Lee Anderson first accused Mayor Khan of falling under the control of Islamists and then, having lost the Conservative whip, defected to Reform, saying that he wants his country back. The Conservative government is still trying to pass legislation to make it easier to send undocumented migrants to Rwanda. And it emerged that Frank Hester — a major Conservative donor to the tune of £10 million ($13 million) — had said that looking at Diane Abbott (Britain's first Black Member of Parliament) makes you “want to hate all black women," and said that she "should be shot." (Hester has since apologised.)Look beneath these dismal reports, however, and a much more optimisticpicture emerges. A higher share of the population was born outside the country than is the case in the US, the classic nation of immigrants: In the UK, it’s 10 million people, or a sixth of the population. These people come from a large (and growing) number of nations — from those in eastern Europe as well as the Indian subcontinent and Africa — and include more women than men. They scatter across the country — hence Gething in Wales and Yousaf in Scotland, and hence the fact that your columnist can get excellent curries in rural Hampshire.The tale of immigration now is largely one of upward mobility rather than stasis and alienation. Foreign-born men have a slightly higher employment rate than British-born residents (though foreign-born women have a lower rate). Ethnic Chinese and Indians outperform Whites in education, and, over the past two decades, Bangladeshis in England have gone from performing significantly worse than White British in state exams to achieving significantly better.
 
The news published on the date March 22, 2024 12:24 PM IST with headline  India to announce results of first critical minerals auction in 10 days is: 
 India to announce results of first critical minerals auction in 10 days India will announce results of the first tranche of 20 critical mineral blocks in 10 days, Secretary of Mines, V.L. Kantha Rao said on Friday.The government also hopes to kick off offshore mining this year, Rao added.Story continues below Advertisemen
 
The news published on the date March 22, 2024 10:05 AM IST with headline  The Red Sea crisis will hurt the global economy if it continues much longer is: 
 - HighlightsTrade through the Suez Canal had dropped 50 percent in the first two months of the year from a year earlierMost of the disruption, thus far, has occurred during Europe’s off-peak season, and the impact could worsen as spring and summer set inBesides shipping costs, insurance costs have risen significantly. War risk premiums are up by nearly 1 percentTogether with the risk of higher crude prices owing to geopolitical tensions, incremental spreads for oil marketing companies i
 
The news published on the date March 22, 2024 08:46 AM IST with headline  The anatomy of inflation is: 
 - HighlightsThe RBI has reiterated its commitment to bring down inflation to 4 percent targetWith CPI inflation still above target, the RBI is cautious on policy easingInflation excluding volatile vegetables is far lower at 3.77 percent in FebruaryHeadline inflation is likely to converge down to core inflation levelThere is scope to cut policy rates by 50-100 basis points, which will mostly come in second half of FY25With some initial success in bringing down inflation, several central banks hav
 
The news published on the date March 22, 2024 08:33 AM IST with headline  Will the February export optimism continue? is: 
 Representative image HighlightsGoods exports grow 11.86 percent YoY in FebruaryThis is the best export show in the current financial year so farNew Delhi mandarins and industry mavens are predicting better days ahead for goods exportsHowever, 11-month goods exports in FY 2023-24 still lag behind last year’s numbersRed Sea and Panama Canal disruptions can queer the export pitch, going forwardIndia needs to encourage MSME exports and explore new markets to grow its share in world tradeAre Indian goods exports feelin
 
The news published on the date March 22, 2024 08:16 AM IST with headline  MC Pro Inside Edge: HNIs try to recall 'Khul ja sim sim', algo trading firms in the soup, Big Pharma’s big worry, Zomato bulls make quiet exit is: 
 - Golden handcuffIn the Arabian Nights tale Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves, Ali’s brother gets trapped inside the cave of riches because he is unable to recall the magic phrase needed to open the cave.(image) Many HNIs who had enthusiastically invested in small caps as part of large groups seem to be in a similar situation. Current prices are still significantly above their purchase price. But the problem is that they cannot sell unless the group leade
 
The news published on the date March 22, 2024 08:00 AM IST with headline  Chart of the Day: Is GDP data understating consumption growth? is: 
 Investment and consumption diverge (image) Will investment-consumption gap reduce?The divergence in India’s investment growth and private consumption growth in the past two years has been both a source of comfort and unease. A sustained increase in investment is the holy grail when it comes to a stable and sustained economic growth. When businesses invest and put up factories and shops, it generates employment and increases income which in turn spurs consumption over the medium term. Thi
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2024 05:07 PM IST with headline  America's waning naval dominance and China’s surge is a worry  is: 
 Since 1945, the US Navy has patrolled the oceans as part of its project to ensure a secure and prosperous America by promoting a secure and prosperous world. The Houthis are sinking ships and killing sailors. China is waging a persistent campaign to make the South China Sea its own private lake. Russia is claiming international waters in the Arctic Ocean. The war in Ukraine has made the Black Sea a shooting gallery.The flashpoints are scattered, but the fundamental crisis is the same. Freedom of navigation is a hallmark of America’s liberal international order; it is a pillar of the relative peace and tremendous prosperity humanity has achieved. And now, as its defenders grow weaker and its challengers become more assertive, it is being threatened in regions around the globe.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdLike the dominance of democracy or the absence of great-power war, freedom of navigation is one of those features of the modern world that we often take for granted because we forget how exceptional it really is. For most of history, the seas were neither safe nor free. Pirates and privateers seized ships and stifled commerce. Nations protected their own commerce and no one else’s. In his famous treatise Mare Liberum, published in 1609, Hugo Grotius may have argued that no country owned the oceans. The behaviour of a great many states suggested they thought otherwise.This really changed only with the ascendancy of the Anglo-American sea powers from the 18th century onward. In wartime, Britain’s Royal Navy conducted blockades that were the terror of its enemies and the neutrals that traded with them — including the United States. In peacetime, Britain’s interest in securing trade routes that connected a far-flung empire made the seas safer for others as well. And when Britannia’s rule faltered, amid the global wars of the 20th century, Washington stepped in.The US originally built its navy in part to shield its vessels from piratical attacks. Depredations by German submarines helped bring America into both world wars. And since 1945, the US Navy has patrolled the oceans as part of its project to ensure a secure and prosperous America by promoting a secure and prosperous world. When freedom of navigation has been violently challenged, the US has fought sharp conflicts — against Iran in the 1980s, for example, and against the Houthis today — to make sure those challenges fail.
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2024 06:46 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Fed’s last-mile quandary is no worry for markets is: 
 The Fed not only upgraded its GDP forecasts for 2024, but also calmed naysayers on rate cuts. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdGlobal markets cheered Fed chair Jay Powell’s narrative that stronger-than-expected economic growth in the US and a strong labour market would not stop the central bank from cutting rates in 2024. Instead, he said the central bank would stick to the dot-plot of three rate cuts in the year that would lower rates by 0.75 percentage points from the present 23-year high of 5.25-5.5 percent.For the near term, economists seem to have put aside concerns about growth. Sustained growth in the US economy, an improving milieu in Europe, a strong recovery in Japan, and China bottoming out turned investors bullish on global markets. The Fed not only upgraded its gross domestic product (GDP) forecasts for 2024, but also calmed naysayers on rate cuts with nine officials (versus six in the December meet) agreeing to rate cuts soon.The question, however, is whether Powell is being too optimistic. Some economists point out that after initially bringing down inflation, the last mile would be a bumpy and challenging road.
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2024 11:40 PM IST with headline  Nike needs a comeback. Adidas just wrote the playbook is: 
 For Nike, there is the extra burden of regaining its historic prowess in sports clothing. When Nike Inc reports its third-quarter earnings on Thursday, investors will be looking for signs that the world’s biggest sportswear company is beating back a growing field of challengers.Nike Chief Executive Officer John Donahoe should learn from his counterpart at Adidas AG, Bjorn Gulden, whose efforts to energise the company following its costly divorce from Kanye West in 2022 are starting to pay off.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFor years, Nike and Adidas were able to serve customers demanding clothing to play sport in as well as those following fashion trends. Now they face rivals on all fronts, from On Holding AG and Deckers Outdoor Corp.’s Hoka, in running, to Lululemon Athletica Inc. in athleisure and Amer Sports Inc.’s Arc’teryx in premium performance and lifestyle wear. This year, challenger brands are set to expand revenue by an average of 17 percent, almost three times the incumbents’ estimated 6 percent, according to analysts at RBC Capital Markets.Amid these incursions, the giants look increasingly like mid-market fashion brands, so they must have their fingers on the pulse of the latest trends. For Nike, there is the extra burden of regaining its historic prowess in sports clothing.Both Nike and Adidas have become too reliant on products that burn bright and then fade, with nothing to take their place. In the case of Nike it has primarily relied on its retro sneakers led by the Air Jordan 1 to rally sales. Over the past decade, Adidas has cycled through the Stan Smith sneaker, the Yeezy collaboration with Ye and now its retro Terrace styles.
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2024 07:45 PM IST with headline  Indian lenders to chase corporate bonds as new investment rules kick in, treasury officials say is: 
 Indian lenders to chase corporate bonds as new investment rules kick in, treasury officials say Indian banks will gravitate towards corporate bonds they intend to hold until maturity once new central bank rules kick in next month, as yields are currently elevated and the investments would be spared from market-linked markdowns, treasury officials said.From April 1, corporate bond investments will be allowed under held-to-maturity (HTM) category for the first time, provided the fair value is disclosed and investments protected from mark-to-market volatility, according to revised Reserve Bank of India rules.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdCurrently banks can hold up to 23% of their deposits under HTM as investments in government bonds and state debt, which will be reduced in phases from April.However, the current yield spread of more than 50 basis points in favour of corporate bonds makes them an attractive investment."From April, for the HTM portfolios, the AAA-rated bonds especially of state-run companies are an attractive bet as they are yielding higher than the state bonds and do not carry much credit risk," VRC Reddy, treasury head at Karur Vysya Bank, said.
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2024 12:38 PM IST with headline  Government preparing for big-bang union budget in July is: 
 PM Narendra Modi Confident of coming back to power after the Lok Sabha elections, the Narendra Modi-led BJP government is preparing for a big-bang July union budget, with major announcements lined up.“India is the pilot that will take the global flight to new heights in the next five years, which would be years of unprecedented growth and prosperity. That is Modi’s guarantee,” said Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the Network18 Rising Bharat Summit on March 20.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe government is preparing a roadmap for the next 25 years, and drawing up plans for the first 100 days of the BJP’s third term in power, Modi added.“The government did not use its gunpowder in the interim union budget. This government is assured that they are coming back to power. The July union budget will be a big-bang affair. People should be ready for a whole lot of announcements,” a senior government official told Moneycontrol.The new government will announce the union budget for the full year in July 2024. On February 1 this year, the government announced the interim budget till the new government comes in place.
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2024 12:33 PM IST with headline  The mutual fund at 100: Is it becoming obsolete? is: 
 - Brooke Masters and Will Schmitt in New York, Madison Darbyshire in Miami and Harriet Agnew in LondonThey enabled millions to invest in the stock market but newer, nimbler products are reshaping asset managementOne hundred years ago on Thursday, Edward Leffler, a former door-to-door salesman of pots and pans, revolutionised financial markets. His invention, the open-ended mutual fund, allowed retail customers to buy into a diversified portfolio of stocks and be confident that they would get a fai
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2024 11:55 AM IST with headline  Bullish Jay Powell sticks to Federal Reserve’s rate-cutting script is: 
 Jay Powell downplayed the risks that the US’s persistently hot labour market would hinder the inflation fight. Claire Jones in Washington and George Steer in LondonFederal Reserve officials unleashed their optimism on Wednesday, unveiling projections for faster than expected US economic growth this year while still leaving room to cut interest rates three times.It was a moment of vindication for the Federal Open Market Committee, whose rosy outlook in December had defied more gloomy expectations from economists.A combination of strong economic growth, low unemployment and falling inflation is historically rare, but Jay Powell’s Fe
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2024 11:25 AM IST with headline  India's coal import rises to 212 MT in April-January period is: 
 India's coal import rises to 212 MT in April-January period The country registered a marginal rise of 1.65 per cent in coal imports to 212.24 Million Tonnes (MT) in the April-January period of the ongoing fiscal, over the year-ago period.India's coal import was 208.78 MT in the corresponding period of the previous fiscal, according to data compiled by mjunction services ltd.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Admjunction services ltd is a B2B e-commerce platform.During the April-January period of the current fiscal, the volume of non-coking coal imports was 136.47 MT, slightly lower than 136.90 MT imported during the same period last financial year, according to the data.Coking coal import was at 47.32 MT during the April-January 2023-24, higher than 46.09 MT recorded in the April-January period of FY23.
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2024 10:59 AM IST with headline  Infra projects deserve opportunities for refinancing. Will RBI relax its NPA policy? is: 
 The aim was to keep the banking sector safe from potent NPAs. Banks were robbed of safe lending opportunities in infrastructure. Infrastructure building has been one of the top agendas of the Narendra Modi government. And if Modi returns to power for a third term, as is widely expected, he should set sight on the next-generation infrastructure building, which will be costlier than ever.The density of expressways should see a quantum jump. Railway modernisation is in its early days. India deserves a network of freight (DFC) and high-speed rail corridors. Most important of all, Indian cities are ugly and inefficient. There should be a complete makeover of urban infrastructure.Ideally, that should set the stage for private-public-partnership (PPP), which is a global choice for big-ticket infra-building. However, such options are limited to India in the absence of a long-term refinance ecosystem and regulatory framework. Together, they are crucial for finance risk mitigation.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdNo EcosystemIn 2019, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) dismantled the refinance options in infrastructure and imposed strict non-performing asset (NPA) provisioning norms, thereby removing every prospect for extending the repayment period.The problem was highlighted by Subhendu Moitra, founder-director of Coeus Advisors at a podcast with this author.Worldwide, large infrastructure projects (like the $13 billion Mumbai-Ahmedabad high speed rail project) enjoy long concession periods. This is to keep the user charges low and negotiate the revenue-related uncertainties.‘Concession’ indicates the period during which a build-own-transfer (BOT) project will remain under the control of the private investor, who in turn raises finance from the lending agencies.The undersea Channel Tunnel between the UK and France has a concession period of 100 years. The project is yet to achieve its target for train passenger traffic.Such uncertainties discourage financial institutions from taking long-term exposure to infrastructure. The problem is solved by refinancing options. Over the past three decades, nearly 200 lenders entered and/or exited the project.India never had such an ecosystem. This is partly because India hadn't seen such in the past. And, partly due to the "conservative" nature of the central bank.Until a decade ago, Indian banks used to offer project finance for a maximum of 10 years. The concession period was mostly limited to 15 years. Together they created the perfect recipe for even quality infrastructure projects to turn NPAs.The problem took a serious turn during the Manmohan Singh rule (2004-2014). The rush to build thermal power stations and award BOT projects in roads translated into piling up of NPAs in both state-owned and private banks.Power plants were affected due to the coal crisis and the associated uncertainty over revenue generation. BOT highway projects became unviable due to implementation delays. The situation went to such a pass that banks stopped financing the infrastructure sector.During his tenure as RBI governor (2013-2016), noted economist Raghuram Rajan tried to solve the structural end of the problem by introducing refinance solutions both for new and existing infra projects.The 5/25 scheme, introduced in 2014, offered to refinance over 30 years to new projects. A separate scheme was introduced for refinance in existing projects, subject to rating of repayment capacity.In a knee-jerk reaction after the IL&FS debacle in 2018, RBI scrapped refinance schemes. The aim was to keep the banking sector safe from potent NPAs. Banks were robbed of safe lending opportunities in infrastructure.Only PSU LendingIndian private banks have not returned to the infra space. Foreign banks were never there and they would not enter the scene till the ecosystem was in place. To let the juggernaut move, the Modi government resorted to a self-financing model.BOT is replaced by the hybrid annuity model (HAM) on highways. PSU banks have been offering long-term loans to government entities, like the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), which monetises completed sections through Investment Trusts (InvIT).This is a good model but not without limitations.First, the infra space became heavily dependent on select state-owned lenders like the State Bank of India (SBI). If there is no fresh fund flow, these lenders have to block huge resources in long-term assets without an exit clause. That is risky.Secondly, InvITs manage the risk by investing in many smaller projects. For large projects, there is no alternative to BOT. And, for big-ticket projects, we need foreign lenders.Refinance is one option to make that happen. The other one is to create the regulatory framework. India has regulators in ports, airports and power; but not in road and rail.A road or rail contractor should approach only the contracting authority for dispute settlement. How fair is that? Should any private lender, Indian or foreign, agree to finance in this space?Highways minister Nitin Gadkari tried to solve the problem by creating a committee of independent experts. But NHAI reserves the right to go to court if the award goes against it. That is insane.Pratim Ranjan Bose is an independent columnist, researcher, and consultant. His X handle is @pratimbose. Views are personal, and do not represent the stand of this publication
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2024 11:33 AM IST with headline  Flash composite PMI rises to 61.3 in Mar, manufacturing index highest since Feb 2008 is: 
 India’s services Purchasing Managers’ Index has been above the crucial level of 50 for 32 months in a row. India's HSBC flash manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) surged to 59.2 in March from 56.9 in February, data released by S&P Global on March 21 showed.At 59.2, the manufacturing PMI is at its highest since February 2008, when it had come in at 59.5, and above the key level of 50 - which separates expansion in activity from contraction - for the 33rd month in a row.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe flash services PMI edged down for the second month in a row to 60.3 from 60.6 in February. However, it could not stop the flash composite PMI rising to an eight-month high of 61.3, up from 60.6 last month. Both the services and composite PMIs are above the level of 50 for the 32nd consecutive month.The flash PMI for India was launched earlier this year in January and is released around a week before the final number. The final March manufacturing PMI for India will be released on April 2, while the services and composite PMIs will be released on April 4.
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2024 10:15 AM IST with headline  The Green Pivot | Sustainable finance is a huge opportunity for the BFSI industry is: 
 Regulatory and market developments on ESG in South Asia pose various challenges – particularly for BFSI entities. Highlights:Many South Asian countries are progressively developing and strengthening regulatory frameworks for ESG integrationThe mobilisation of finance needed for this climate-aligned development across the subcontinent presents a significant opportunity for Banks to enhance sustainable finance strategiesRegulatory and market developments on ESG in South Asia pose various challenges – particularly for BFSI entitiesBFSI institutions can embrace sustainability reporting and compliance, while undertaking sustainable finance projects Climate change stands as the most pressing global issue, expected to impact multiple domain
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2024 09:21 AM IST with headline  Odisha in Transformation: Innovations in public transport raises hopes of a new dawn is: 
 The government of Odisha must be commended for this focus on reliable public transportation. Odisha is going through a steady transformation on many socio-economic fronts. One of these which is potentially impactful is public transportation. There are two major initiatives with an urban and rural focus respectively. The urban initiative operates under a Special Purpose Vehicle, called Capital Region Urban Transport (CRUT), while the rural initiative has been launched under the Location Accessible Multimodal Initiative (LAccMI) scheme.The primary objective of CRUT is to ‘provide safe, reliable, accessible, user-friendly and sustainable public transport to the city and further setting up a mechanism to deliver public transport that keeps up the pace with demand’. The objective of the LAccMI scheme is to ‘provide multi-modal public transport connectivity for the Gram Panchayats (GPs), Block Headquarters (HQ), District HQ along with the connectivity to major economic hubs, educational and medical hubs, and transport nodes across the state’.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdCRUT: Reviving Flagging Urban TransportCRUT had its birth on May 4, 2018, taking over the then Bhubaneswar Puri Transport Services Limited (BPTSL). Services under BPTSL had slowly dwindled from a 150 sized fleet with 50,000 daily ridership in 2010 to a fleet of 25 with a daily ridership of 7,000 in 2018. BPTSL operated a Public Private Partnership (PPP) under a net cost contract model, in which the private bus operator was responsible for operating the bus with a driver and conductor and collected all the revenue.The operator paid BPTSL a monthly route authorisation fee and shared 20 percent of non-fare box revenues. The operator, over a period, focused more on the profitable routes and exited from the non-profitable ones. There was nothing in the system to ensure a long-term perspective nor oversight and control by the authority.
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2024 09:09 AM IST with headline  HDR report: India has high inequality, but that doesn’t matter is: 
 Inequality in life expectancy is far starker than other types of inequality, since it measures the difference in people’s lifespans based on their position in the social ladder HighlightsThe UN Development Programme’s Human Development Report for 2023-24 says the top 1 percent of Indians have 21.7 percent of the nation’s incomeThat is higher than the share of the top 1 percent in most countriesInequality in life expectancy too is high in IndiaThe HDR report says that among 60 countries surveyed, India is a country where most people believe inequality is fair, regardless of whether it stems from merit or notThis belief lowers demand for redistributionI
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2024 08:39 AM IST with headline  Higher incentives for thermal power plants a boon for NTPC is: 
 Thermal power plant HighlightsRegulated return hiked for new hydro projects with storage capacitiesIncentives raised for thermal electricity produced during peak and non-peak hoursOlder power plants now eligible for incentives at lower utilisation levelsWhile new norms will benefit NTPC and NHPC, the stocks have already re-ratedThe power sector regulator has increased incentives for conventional energy that generates electricity during the crucial peak demand hours.Beginning April 2024, thermal power plants will get an additional incentive of 9-10 paise per kilowatt hour i
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2024 02:13 PM IST with headline  Fed policy: What should Indian investors do as US soft landing plays out? is: 
 What is in for Indian investors as the uncertainty remains for rate cuts? Highlights - Quarterly performance largely backed by improved realisations - Medium-term triggers China plus and protectionist measures for tyre industry - Valuations not inexpensive; but improved medium-term outlook HighlightsFed pauses, but rate cut projections for 2024 remain intactIndicates moderation in the pace of rate easing cycle in 2026FII inflows may remain sideways due to policy uncertaintyDuring correction, focus on sectors with demand/policy push tailwindsWhile the Street was anticipating a hawkish stance by the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) at its meeting on Wednesday because of the higher-than-expected inflation readings in the last two months, the policy rate cut projections came as a welcome relief b
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2024 03:06 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Oil market heats up is: 
 The surge in oil prices brings the threat of rising inflation. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOil prices have surged to a 4-month high, with analysts anticipating a potential crossing of the $90 per barrel threshold, buoyed by a convergence of multiple factors favouring a bullish outlook for oil.Both benchmark oil prices have surpassed the $86 per barrel mark, marking a significant uptick. This recent rally follows intensified attacks by Ukraine on Russian oil infrastructure, specifically targeting at least seven refineries with drones this month. These attacks have resulted in the shutdown of approximately 7 percent of Russian refining capacity, equivalent to about 370,500 barrels per day.Energy experts predict that the refinery closures will prompt Russia to ramp up oil exports through its western ports in March by nearly 200,000 barrels per day, reaching around 2.15 million barrels per day.
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2024 04:52 PM IST with headline  Income and wealth of India's top 1% at historical high: Report is: 
 The report claimed that between 2014-15 and 2022-23, the rise of top-end inequality, when it comes to wealth concentrations, has been significantly high. The shares of income and wealth of India’s top 1% at 22.6% and 40.1% respectively is at their “highest historical levels” in 2022-23, beating even developed economies such as the US, according to a paper released by the World Inequality Lab.The paper, co-authored by economists Nitin Kumar Bharti, Lucas Chancel, Thomas Piketty, and Anmol Somanchi, said the country reached its historical highs in the last financial year. Naming the paper, the “Billionaire Raj”, the authors claimed that the country was now more unequal than even the British Raj.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPost-independence era saw the income and wealth gap decline till the early 1980s after which “it began rising and has skyrocketed since the early 2000s”, the report said.It also claimed that between 2014-15 and 2022-23, the rise of top-end inequality, when it comes to wealth concentrations, has been significantly high. One of the major issue on policy level has been the country’s taxation system. The paper said as per the suggestive evidence, “Indian income tax system might be regressive when viewed from the lens of net wealth.”“A restructuring of the tax code to account for both income and wealth, and broad-based public investments in health, education and nutrition are needed to enable the average Indian, and not just the elites, to meaningfully benefit from the ongoing wave of globalization,” according to the paper.
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2024 02:08 PM IST with headline  The Macro Puzzle – II: Divergence between Consumption and GDP is: 
 In 2023-24 we see that the difference between GDP and consumption has increased to 4.5 percentage points. Since the release of the GDP (Gross Domestic Product) estimates for third quarter (Q3) 2023-24 and for the entire year 2023-24, economists have been discussing the underlying trends of GDP growth. The data has led to posing more questions than giving answers. In an earlier article, I had discussed how the data shows wide divergence between growth rates of GDP and GVA. As both GDP and GVA approaches are used for computing a nation’s income, the difference in growth rates should at best be marginal.In this article, we explore another odd finding from the GDP data: Wide divergence between growth rates of GDP and Consumption. We need to understand some basics before looking at the recent data.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn the earlier article, I had discussed how statistical authorities first calculate GVA and then compute GDP. The GVA approach is also called the Production approach. There is another approach to estimate GDP: Expenditure approach.India’s Consumption And GDP TrajectoriesUnder the Expenditure approach, we estimate the expenditure incurred by the four major sectors of the economy: Households (consumption expenditure or C), Corporates (investment expenditure or I), Government (government expenditure or G) and External Sector (Spending on exports or X minus imports or M). On adding these different expenditures we get GDP (or Y). The expenditure approach is also the famous macroeconomic identity: Y = C + I + G + X – M.
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2024 02:10 PM IST with headline  India's sponge iron producers seek duties to curb iron ore exports is: 
 India's sponge iron producers seek duties to curb iron ore exports Indian sponge iron producers have urged the government to impose duties on exports of low-grade iron ore to stave off shortages of the main raw material in the world's second-biggest crude steel producer."We have urged the government that there is a shortage of iron ore, (so) please intervene and levy export duty," Rahul Mittal, chairman of the Sponge Iron Manufacturers Association, told Reuters in an interview.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndia, the world's biggest sponge iron producer, has about 336 sponge iron plants spread across the country. India produces around 50 million metric tons of sponge iron, which is mostly used by secondary steel producers as raw material.India's iron ore exports touched 32.2 million metric tons during the first nine months of the current fiscal year that began in April 2023 - worth $2.7 billion - from 9.5 million metric tons a year earlier.More than 90% of India's overall iron ore shipments go to neighbouring China.
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2024 05:10 PM IST with headline  Rising Bharat Summit 2024: Brand Bharat differentiates India’s strengths, says Amitabh Kant is: 
 . India has taken great leaps in infrastructure, digitisation and climate change with the aspiration to become a modern progressive nation based on our civilisation, which is the differentiator of brand Bharat, G20 Sherpa Amitabh Kant said on March 20.“What we have achieved in digitisation, climate change, infrastructure, there is a huge sense of national pride. We are not aping the West anymore, vestiges of colonialism have gone. We are going back to our roots. We want to be a modern progressive nation based on our own civilisation. Bharat gives you that sense as the time is now to be aspirational,” Kant said at the News18 Rising Bharat Summit 2024.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhile the Centre's capital expenditure for 2024-25 is estimated at Rs 11.11 lakh crore, its effective capex, after accounting for grants-in-aid for creation of capital assets, which include allocations under demand-driven schemes such as the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act scheme, stands at Rs 14.97 lakh crore, up from the revised estimate of Rs 12.71 lakh crore in 2023-24.“Bharat brand works best when we differentiate on our strengths. It’s about encapsulating what we have achieved in our growth, quantum leap in digitisation and infrastructure. Time is now to leapfrog,” he said.India’s economic growth continued to be robust in the third quarter backed by strong momentum, robust indirect taxes, and lower subsidies, according to the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) monthly State of the Economy article, released on March 19. India's gross domestic product (GDP) grew 8.4 percent in the December quarter, data released by the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation on February 29 showed, blowing all expectations out of the water.
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2024 01:37 PM IST with headline  Rollback Under Duress: How reform attempts in the sugar and fertiliser sectors have fared is: 
 The two examples of sugar and fertiliser show the limits of complete decontrol of the agriculture sector. Now that general elections have been declared and no policy decisions are expected till the formation of new government, it is time to look at the reforms in two major sectors – sugar and fertilisers. Both have seen rolling back of reforms. This raises a question as to whether it is premature to expect complete deregulation in India’s agriculture and food sectors.Sugar SectorStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn April 2013, the UPA government decided to abolish the levy system on sugar under which the sugar mills were required to deliver at least 10 percent of their production to the Government. The price fixed for levy sugar was almost always less than the market price. The Government provided the levy sugar to state governments for distribution under the public distribution system (PDS). The sugar mills bore a burden of Rs 1,800 crore to Rs 2,500 crore on account of levy sugar.The Government decided that instead of levy sugar, it will provide a cash subsidy to the states for purchasing sugar from the open market. The Government paid a fixed sugar subsidy of Rs 18.50 per kg to the states and they were asked to charge Rs 13.50 per kg from the Antyodaya Anna Yoiana (AAY) beneficiaries.More importantly, the Union Government decided to scrap the release mechanism of sugar under which the Sugar Division of Department of Food and Public Distribution (DFPD) decided the quantity of sugar which could be sold by a sugar mill in each month.
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2024 11:19 AM IST with headline  India’s regulators SEBI and RBI are acting tough to restore credibility is: 
 The SEBI is concerned about the froth in asset prices, concentrated positions in illiquid small-cap shares and an unhealthy craze among retail investors for trading options. (Source: Bloomberg) The recent hyperactivity at both India’s banking regulator and the securities watchdog has caught the market by surprise. Commercial lenders have taken a rap for hiding their bad loans in private-credit funds. Investment banks are under the scanner for pushing initial public offerings past the finish line by funding mule accounts. A homegrown paymentspioneer was told to shut down its bank.Fintech firms in Bengaluru are complaining about regulatory overreach, as is the traditional finance industry in Mumbai. Even some overseas hedge funds are miffed at being asked to make onerous disclosures.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe screws are going to get tightened further. The reason is simple. Misbehavior of money in the commercial domain has paled into insignificance with the sudden spotlight on its role in the political arena. This scrutiny is affecting both the Reserve Bank of India and the Securities and Exchange Board of India, which are scrambling to repair their credibility.The SEBI’s reputation took a knock last year after New York-based short seller Hindenburg Research’s attack on Adani Group put its own oversight of the sprawling conglomerate under scrutiny. An Indian Supreme Court-appointed committee said in its report that the regulator had hit a wall in ascertaining if any of the 42 contributories in the 13 offshore funds that had invested in the group’s listed firms were fronts for Gautam Adani, an infrastructure tycoon seen to be close to Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Adani, who denied all of Hindenburg’s allegations, just last week described the short seller’s report as a campaign to politically defame India’s governance practices.It would be embarrassing for the Indian regulator — which has until April to wind up its inquiry — to be beaten by US prosecutors. The US Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York and the Justice Department’s fraud unit in Washington are probing if people or firms linked to Adani were involved in paying officials in India for favorable treatment on an energy project. While the investigation is at an advanced stage, it isn’t certain that it will lead to prosecution, Bloomberg News reported Friday. Adani companies described the report as false. The conglomerate’s market capitalization has slid by $6 billion to $184 billion over two days this week.
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2024 11:17 AM IST with headline  How India’s butter chicken found its place in America is: 
 Butter chicken served at a US-based Indian Buffet where an American flag hangs. (Source: Raj Tawney/Bloomberg) For as far back as I can remember, chicken makhani — or butter chicken as it’s more commonly known — has been a premiere dish for Indian cuisine in the United States. Oftentimes, it’s the only item that non-Desis can mention by name, and their love for the rich curry runs deep.It’s likely a significant reason why several analyses of Google searches have shown Indian food to be among the Top 5 most sought-after cuisines across the US.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFood companies have capitalized on this admiration by making jarred versions of the curry (often labeled as “sauce”) that can be purchased from most major retail grocery chains. And in 2023, the frozen dinner version claimed the #1 Lunch & Dinner spot in Trader Joe’s Customer Choice Awards, dethroning Mandarin orange chicken.But long before we could walk down grocery aisles, pick up pre-cooked butter chicken and pop it in a microwave to enjoy (a term I use loosely here), it had to be created.A fight for the credit of the dish’s origin story has reached India’s courts, as the descendants of two men stake claim.
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2024 09:41 AM IST with headline  Unilever’s ice cream scoop-out may increase appetite for another split is: 
 Actually making the announced cost cuts and reinvesting the money profitably requires better execution than Unilever has managed in the past. Spin offs work particularly well when the original corporate hodge podge obscures the value of one (or more) true gems. That isn’t the case with Unilever’s proposed demerger of its ice-cream business.Instead of an uplift in valuation, the scoop-out may simply increase investor appetite for bolder action on the group’s bloated portfolio.Unilever’s plan is best understood as the unwinding of a corporate footprint which made little sense in the first place. Ice-cream — which accounted for 1
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2024 10:03 AM IST with headline  Politics re-asserts the old adage: In Cash We Trust is: 
 In the short term, it is worth asking whether heightened political activity over the next few weeks will revive demand for currency Many old shops still display fading posters baldly proclaiming: “In Cash We Trust". Many others continue to assert that cash is king. Cash means many things to many people: currency notes, a generic term for money in any form and a catch-all phrase for capturing the monetary worth of assets. The advent of digital payments has hardened the distinction and now cash mostly means currency. There have been multiple attempts by economists, central bankers and government official
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2024 03:03 PM IST with headline  NABARD projects Rs 2,43,093 crore credit potential for Bihar in 2024-25 is: 
 - The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has projected Rs 2,43,093 crore credit potential for Bihar in 2024-25.The likely estimate has been made taking into account the Reserve Bank of India's priority sector-based guidelines, Central and state government policies and policies for sustainable agriculture and rural development.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe State Focus Paper 2024-25 for Bihar, a compilation of the assessed credit flow for all 38 districts of the state was unveiled by Development Commissioner Chaitanya Prasad at NABARD's credit seminar here on Tuesday. The total credit flow under the priority sector for the year 2024-25 is estimated at Rs 2,43,093 crore.Prasad said, "There is a need for credit intensification through specific planning for each of the sub-sectors under agriculture in the state. Credit plays an important role in economic development and employment generation in the state".Chief General Manager, NABARD, Sunil Kumar said that as on March 31, 2023, "Bihar with a CD ratio of 53.01 per cent is classified as one of the states with the lowest CD Ratio. Twenty-eight out of 38 districts in the state have been classified as credit deficient districts, where per capita credit availability is less than Rs 6000".Kumar urged banks to remain committed to achieve the target suggested in the State Focus Paper in agriculture and allied sector as well as MSME and other priority sectors.Principal Secretary, Finance, Arvind Kumar Chaudhary said that the CD ratio of the state has increased over the years. He expressed concern over the fact that Kisan Credit Card coverage in Bihar is still limited to 25 per cent land holding.
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2024 09:19 AM IST with headline  Marketing Musings | Catching eyeballs: From television to digital is: 
 Digital marketing and advertising democratises the market place but buyers are fragmented unlike in the past. Highlights:Print and television were the binary choices of promotion and reach so farDigital branding is key for awareness but television wins for long term sustainable brandingAnalytics has taken over as a key process to assess the effectiveness of advertising in the digital worldMadison agency highlights five key trends for the current yearDigital marketing and advertising democratises the market place but buyers are fragmented unlike in the past Lord Leverhulme, the founder of Lever Brothers (now Unilever) had famousl
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2024 02:10 PM IST with headline  India prepares to start new LNG import terminal as demand rises is: 
 India prepares to start new LNG import terminal as demand rises India is looking to purchase the inaugural shipment for its latest liquefied natural gas terminal, as the nation aims to rapidly increase consumption of the fuel this decade.Gujarat State Petroleum Corp. released a tender to buy a commissioning cargo for the Chhara terminal for delivery in April, according to traders with knowledge of the matter. The facility in Gujarat state is being developed by Hindustan Petroleum Corp., and will have the capacity to import 5 million tons per year of LNG.Story continues below AdvertisementNew Delhi is trying to increase LNG import capacity to lift the share of natural gas in its energy mix to 15% by 2030 from about 7% now. The move is to help lower the dependence on dirtier fossil fuels, such as coal and oil.India currently imports LNG via seven terminals. Along with the Chhara facility, Swan Energy Ltd.’s Jafrabad import facility is also expected to begin operations this year, according to BloombergNEF
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2024 08:39 AM IST with headline  MC Pro Inside Edge: Early conversion at Walchandnagar Industries, Halwasiya firms continue slide, MFs punt on ‘future’, Wockhardt shuts window is: 
 Cash the chipsThe 33 investors—including two promoter group entities—who were allotted preferential warrants in Walchandnagar Industries in October 2023, have converted a tidy portion of those warrants into shares. Under the rules, they can convert the warrants into shares anytime within 18 months from the date of allotment. Some investors have converted all of their warrants by paying the outstanding amount. The development has surprised the Street because the very idea of subscribing to warrants is t
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2024 08:16 AM IST with headline  RBI report shows India has a friend in growth, a frenemy in inflation is: 
 RBI's growth hopes spar with its inflation worry HighlightsRBI report maintains its sanguine tone over India’s economic growth and prospectsRBI researchers expect GDP growth to be very near 8 percent for FY24Investment growth is robust and private capex is showing signs of revivalRBI report recognizes benefits of core inflation fall but still wary on food inflationThe great Indian election will kick off exactly a month from now and people will queue to vote for the next government starting April 19. While political hyperbole surrounds severa
 
The news published on the date March 29, 2024 02:17 PM IST with headline  India hasn't had an ambition like Viksit Bharat since independence movement: Smriti Irani is: 
 Irani was speaking at News18’s Rising Bharat Summit on March 19. India has not had a "national ambition" like Viksit Bharat by 2047 since the movement to gain independence from the British, Smriti Irani, union minister for women and child development and minority affairs, said.Speaking at News18's Rising Bharat Summit on March 19 in New Delhi, Irani also said Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Narendra Modi are the only two leaders to have called for votes on the basis of their performance instead of emotion.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: 'Scared of defeat in Amethi' – Irani takes dig at Rahul, counters 'Shakti' remark"For too long and for too many years in our country we have seen people vote on the basis of emotion. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and before him Atal Bihari Vajpaee, are two leaders who said 'judge us by our development performance'. What you see on the opposite side are people who are pliant and depending on negative rhetoric," Irani said."Modi is the only leader right now who has given you a national ambition. After the freedom movement, we have never had a national ambition and a clarion call like (becoming developed by 2047)," she added.
 
The news published on the date March 19, 2024 06:44 PM IST with headline  World shares dip, yen slides amid landmark BOJ policy shift is: 
 World shares dip, yen slides amid landmark BOJ policy shift Global shares dipped and the yen slid on Tuesday after the Bank of Japan met market expectations by ending eight years of negative interest rates, likely the highlight of a busy week for central banks.MSCI's world share index dropped 0.16%, though was still near all-time highs, and U.S. Nasdaq futures were down 0.7%, with chip stocks having a rare bad day in premarket trading. The U.S benchmark 10-year Treasury yield was around 1 basis point (bp) lower at 4.33%. [.N] [US/]Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe day's big news was in Japan, where the BOJ heralded a new era as it shifted away from years of ultra-easy monetary policy. It also abandoned bond yield curve control and dropped purchases of riskier assets, including exchange-traded funds.Japan's Nikkei was choppy after the decision but closed 0.66% higher, buoyed by the weaker yen, while Japanese government bond yields fell. The dollar rose as much as 1% to 150.7 yen."The BOJ clearly has been very, very keen to manage this process so that it is not disruptive," said David Mitchinson, fund manager at Japan focused Zennor Asset Management. "The markets have front-run them and anticipated their move."
 
The news published on the date March 19, 2024 06:41 PM IST with headline  States borrow record Rs 50,200 crore from market; pricing jumps 7 bps to 7.45% is: 
 The cash-strapped states are borrowing more from the market as the fiscal year is about to close. Normally, the March quarter is the busiest for government spending In the largest weekly auction ever, 17 states have mopped up Rs 50,200 crore in debt from the market, 81 per cent higher than the Rs 27,500 crore indicated in the auction calendar for this Tuesday.Reflecting the massive supply, the weighted average cut-off, which has been declining steadily since last month, has climbed by 7 bps to 7.45 per cent from 7.38 per cent last week. Reflecting the massive supply, the weighted average cut-off, which has been declining steadily since last month, has climbed by 7 bps to 7.45 per cent from 7.38 per cent last week.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAfter hitting a two-year high of 7.89 in the first weekly auction in January and remaining thereabout, the interest rates began to fall from January after the Centre released the states’ dues from the tax devolution in the first week of February. The cash-strapped states are borrowing more from the market as the fiscal year is about to close.The cash-strapped states are borrowing more from the market as the fiscal year is about to close. Normally, the March quarter is the busiest for government spending. The record high supply today was in spite of a mild decline in the weighted average tenor of state debt to 15 years from 16 years, Icra Ratings chief economist Aditi Nayar said in a note.As a result, the spread between the cut-off of the 10-year state bonds and the benchmark 10-year G-sec (7.18 GS 2033) yield also increased mildly to 36 bps from 35 bps last week, she said. As a result, the spread between the cut-off of the 10-year state bonds and the benchmark 10-year G-sec (7.18 GS 2033) yield also increased mildly to 36 bps from 35 bps last week, she said. So far this fiscal, the states have drawn down 29.4 per cent more than the year-ago period at Rs 9.28 lakh crore from Rs 7.17 lakh crore in the same period last fiscal.
 
The news published on the date March 19, 2024 05:07 PM IST with headline  Gold slips on stronger dollar as investors strap in for Fed meeting is: 
 Gold slips on stronger dollar as investors strap in for Fed meeting Gold prices drifted lower on Tuesday as the US dollar firmed, while investors await remarks from U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell scheduled after the central bank's policy meeting wraps up on Wednesday for more clarity on interest rate cut moves.Spot gold fell 0.3% at $2,153.60 per ounce as of 1027 GMT, hovering near its lowest levels in a week hit on Monday. US gold futures eased 0.3% at $2,157.30.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe dollar gained 0.5% and hit a more than two-week high, making gold more expensive for other currency holders. [USD/]"With the FOMC meeting approaching and some concern of a more hawkish FOMC statement, with the dots eventually indicating less rate cuts this year, some market participants prefer to hold a more cautious stance by reducing their (gold) holdings," said UBS analyst Giovanni Staunovo.Markets widely expect the Fed to stand pat on rates at its two-day policy meeting that starts later in the day, but attention will largely focussed around comments from Powell on updated interest rate projections due on Wednesday.
 
The news published on the date March 19, 2024 04:15 PM IST with headline  Rupee declines 12 paise to close at 83.02 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee declines 12 paise to close at 83.02 against US dollar The rupee depreciated 12 paise to 83.02 (provisional) against the US dollar on Tuesday, weighed down by a heavy selloff in domestic equities and persistent foreign capital outflows.Besides, a surging greenback against major crosses overseas also pulled down the other local currency, forex traders said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 82.94 and touched the intra-day low of 83.05 and a high of 82.93. It finally settled at 83.02 (provisional) against the dollar, registering a loss of 12 paise from its previous close.On Monday, the rupee dropped 4 paise to settle at 82.90 against the US dollar."The rupee's…decline is primarily driven by a significant rise in the dollar index, which surged by USD 0.70 to USD 103.70. This surge stems from a shift in expectations regarding the US Federal Reserve's interest rate policy.
 
The news published on the date March 19, 2024 10:36 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Mergers are not a please-all solution is: 
 Mergers and acquisitions are not always the best way to grow a business. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMergers and acquisitions are not always the best way to grow a business. Companies resort to them to expand their product offering, gain scale and operating efficiencies. Yet such activities can create role redundancies, trigger attrition and sometimes even disturb the growth tempo.HDFC Bank is the latest company to report an exit of a senior employee Arvind Kapil, group head retail assets - home loans. Kapil is heading towards Poonawalla Fincorp where he is set to become a managing director and chief executive officer (CEO).After the merger of HDFC, HDFC Bank has seen exits of several senior executives. Some went on to take leadership roles in companies outside HDFC Bank. While employee churn is not uncommon, investors should watch out for the impact on the business. Departing executives tend to dip into the talent pool of their previous organisations. But a steady loss of talent can weigh on business momentum. “We believe any similar churn at the senior management level over the near-to-medium term will be a key monitorable,” warn analysts at Nomura.Developments in the IT sector hold a cautionary message too. LTIMindtree, which was created after merging Mindtree with Larsen & Toubro Infotech, lost steam after amalgamation of the companies.
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2024 02:18 AM IST with headline  Bank of Japan ends era of negative interest rates is: 
 Despite the return to positive interest rates, BoJ officials do not see the first increase as a signal that more will quickly follow. Kana Inagaki in TokyoThe Bank of Japan has ended an era of negative interest rates, raising borrowing costs for the first time since 2007 in a historic shift as the country puts decades of deflation behind it.Kazuo Ueda, the BoJ governor, brought an end to more than a decade of ultra-loose monetary policy, abandoning a swath of easing measures that were put in place to stimulate Asia’s most advanced economy.Following a 7-2 majority vote the BoJ sai
 
The news published on the date March 19, 2024 04:00 PM IST with headline  India buying more US oil as sanctions stifle Russian flows is: 
 India buying more US oil as sanctions stifle Russian flows Indian oil refiners are on track to take the most American crude in almost a year after tighter enforcement of US sanctions crimped trade with Russia and forced processors to look elsewhere for supply.State-owned Bharat Petroleum Corp. and Indian Oil Corp., along with top private refiner Reliance Industries Ltd., have purchased about 7 million barrels of April-loading US crude so far this month, said traders who asked not to be identified. That would be the largest monthly volume since May, according to Kpler.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRussian crude flows to India surged after the invasion of Ukraine and the OPEC+ producer is still the biggest supplier to the South Asian nation, but tighter US sanctions have stranded cargoes and discounts have narrowed. India has also ramped up purchases recently from Saudi Arabia.Bharat Petroleum, Indian Oil and Reliance Industries didn’t immediately respond to emails seeking comment.
 
The news published on the date March 19, 2024 12:55 PM IST with headline  Ashwini Vaishnaw rejects jobless growth claim, says 1.44 crore opportunities created every year is: 
 Vaishnaw, the Union Minister for railways, electronics and information technology, and communications, was speaking at News18’s Rising Bharat Summit on March 19. Union Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw has rejected accusations by Congress leader P Chidambaram of India's growth story being 'jobless', saying data showed that nearly 1.5 crore job opportunities were being created every year. According to Vaishnaw, this is double of what was being created a few years ago.Vaishnaw was responding to a question on the matter at News18's Rising Bharat Summit in New Delhi on March 19.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: What's driving rise in participation of women in the workforce?"I challenge P Chidambaram," Vaishnaw said."Anyone who is employed with an organisation is registered with the Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) and a portion of their salary is deducted and the employer also makes a contribution. This data is accepted by everyone. And as per EPFO data, the number of new jobs minus those who have left their jobs plus those who have returned to employment - this net number is the total job opportunity. This is straightforward math," he added.
 
The news published on the date March 19, 2024 04:59 PM IST with headline  India's exports may reach $450 billion this fiscal: New FIEO President Ashwani Kumar is: 
 India's exports may reach $450 billion this fiscal: New FIEO President Ashwani Kumar The country's merchandise exports are expected to reach USD 450 billion by the end of this fiscal despite geo-political challenges like the Red Sea crisis, newly elected president of apex exporters body FIEO Ashwani Kumar said on Tuesday.He said that the need of the hour is to address the Red Sea crisis challenges by ensuring the availability of marine insurance and rational increase in freight charges.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe exporting sector, particularly, MSMEs, needs easy and low-cost credit, and marketing support to further boost the country's exports, Kumar said, adding early conclusion of free trade agreements such as with the UK and Oman will also help push the outbound shipments."I will focus on addressing issues of MSMEs as they are going to play. They will play a key role in achieving the USD 1 trillion goods export target by 2030. They are the backbone of the economy and they are facing certain issues pertaining to credit. I would urge banks to come forward in extending support to these units," Kumar said.Further, the FIEO (Federation of Indian Export Organisations) president said that the organisation is also working on exploring more opportunities for exporters in regions like Latin America and Africa.
 
The news published on the date March 19, 2024 04:00 PM IST with headline  Significant ramp up in capacities to help achieve $40 billion exports target is: 
 Significant ramp up in capacities to help achieve $40 billion exports target Steps such as significant ramp up in production capacities, and skilling of workforce will help achieve USD 40 billion garment exports target by 2030, AEPC said on Tuesday.Apparel Export Promotion Council of India (AEPC) Chairman Sudhir Sekhri said skilled workers like tailors and quality checkers are still not sufficient as during the peak season they go to their native villages thereby creating shortage.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Our target to reach USD 40 billion of RMG (readymade garments) export by 2030 can be a reality and my duty is to take every possible step to reach this target," Sekhri said.He said "we need to ramp up our capacities as the export houses in India are still unable to handle core/basic products which are required in huge quantities".He added that the council is also focused on skilling the workforce.
 
The news published on the date March 19, 2024 12:05 PM IST with headline  How to forecast price reversals and get an early-mover advantage is: 
 Armed with the right information you can plan your trades to utilise your capital more effectively. Trading is a game of probabilities and not certainties. In such a scenario, the slightest edge a trader has can help him stay ahead of the crowds. This piece is about giving you that edge.In physics there is a concept of chaotic attraction. Note how lightning strikes a lightning arrestor affixed on top of high rise apartments, even though the tip of the lightning rod is like the tip of a spear. When you smoke a cigarette
 
The news published on the date March 19, 2024 10:02 AM IST with headline  Why India’s FDI inflow is slowing down, and measures to deal with it is: 
 FDI inflows into India have been slowing down. India with its rapid GDP growth of $3.5 trillion, a population of 1.4 billion, along with an abundant supply of workers and favourable geopolitical dynamics -- presents an attractive option for countries and corporations seeking to reduce their reliance on China. As they seek alternative suppliers capable of matching China in pricing and scale, India emerges as a prime destination for foreign investors, checking all the right boxes.Yet FDI inflows into India have been slowing down. According to RBI data, India’s gross FDI inflows in the first six months of current financial year stood at a meagre $10.1 billion. As a percentage of its GDP, gross FDI inflows fell to 1 percent, while net FDI fell to 0.6 percent in this period. In comparison, this ratio is a whopping 4.5 percent for Vietnam.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFurthermore, as much as 60 percent of Vietnam’s FDI inflows go to its manufacturing sector, compared to not even 20-25 percent in India. This is despite manufacturing being the focus of government policy measures that include among others, slashed corporation tax (17 percent for new manufacturing units), increased import duties to protect indigenous manufacturers from competitively priced imports, and a generous production linked incentive (PLI) to support Make in India.Attracting Foreign Investment Part of the slowdown in India’s FDI inflows can be attributed to increasing inward orientation globally. Nevertheless, slowing global FDI flows can’t fully explain the sharp contraction in India’s foreign investment inflows. The fact remains that foreign investors don’t seem to be as excited about India as we Indians expect them to be.
 
The news published on the date March 19, 2024 08:28 AM IST with headline  MC Pro Inside Edge: Fund managers in Apollo Tyres in for a bumpy ride, Varanium promoter’s diversification strategy, shoot the messenger, new storylines is: 
 Flat tyreDomestic fund houses who piled on to Apollo Tyres in December when Warburg Pincus arm White Iris was trimming its stake must be wondering whether to stay put or temporarily retreat. The deal looked a bargain when the stock price shot up by Rs 100 immediately after the block deal. Interestingly, the stock was rising in January and early February even as rubber prices and oil prices were firming up. The narrative was that strong automobil
 
The news published on the date March 18, 2024 03:12 PM IST with headline  India can’t match China’s past 8-10% growth, Morgan Stanley says is: 
 India can’t match China’s past 8-10% growth, Morgan Stanley says India is unlikely to achieve the 8%-10% economic growth rates that China pulled off over the long term, Morgan Stanley’s chief Asia economist said, even though the investment bank remains optimistic about the South Asian nation’s prospects.India’s economy will likely grow steadily at 6.5%-7% over the long term, Chetan Ahya said in interview Monday with Bloomberg Television’s Haslinda Amin. The South Asian nation is also far from replacing its bigger rival as a global manufacturing hub, he added.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdChina’s growth averaged 10% a year in the three decades after its economic reforms in 1978, official figures show.Economic progress in India is being hamstrung by a lack of infrastructure, and a low skilled workforce, Ahya said. “Both these constraints make us believe that India’s growth is going to be strong, but at 6.5%-7% rather than 8%-10%,” he said.Even so, Morgan Stanley remains upbeat about India’s prospects, and said in a recent report that the current expansion resembles that of the mid-2000s boom, fueled by rising investment.
 
The news published on the date March 18, 2024 05:53 PM IST with headline  The elusive search for economic transformation is: 
 - If the UK’s real gross domestic product per head had continued on its 1955-2008 path, it would now be 39 per cent higher. I made this point in a column on Jeremy Hunt’s recent Budget. This performance is dreadful. But it is far from unique. France has been doing about as badly.In the long run, continued stagnation creates severe social and political challenges: higher taxes; worsening quality of public services; pervasive disappointment; and zero-sum struggles for advantage
 
The news published on the date March 18, 2024 12:12 PM IST with headline  Digital Competition Bill: A mixed bag is: 
 - Kazim RizviIn a much-awaited move, the Committee on Digital Competition Law (‘CDCL/the Committee’) has finally released its report (‘the Report’) recommending an ex-ante framework for the regulation of digital markets along with the Draft Digital Competition Bill 2024 (‘DCB/the Bill’), specifically to large digital enterprises, i.e., Systemically Significant Digital Enterprises (SSDEs). As discussions on the proposed law intensify, examining its consultation process, scope, and provisions is essential.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdConsultation PeriodWhile the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) has provided time until April 15 to submit comments on the report and the Bill, this is insufficient for stakeholders to provide meaningful and evidence-based comments.The timeline needs to be cognizant of the fact that the draft bill and report are technically complex and might require analysis from the lens of law, economics, governance frameworks, and business operations. A longer timeline of at least three months would give the stakeholders ample time to submit comments.
 
The news published on the date March 18, 2024 10:52 AM IST with headline  SEBI's intervention to address market 'froth' takes it into uncharted territory is: 
 - HighlightsSmall, midcap stocks have fallen sharply ever since the SEBI chairperson warned of manipulationSEBI said there is froth or a bubble situation among small, midcap stocksMutual funds have trimmed positions in these segments and investors are jitterySEBI's regulator’s warnings may be justified but evidence backing them is yet to be made publicSmall and mid-cap stocks are in the news. A key issue arises around their meteoric rise and whether
 
The news published on the date March 18, 2024 03:12 PM IST with headline  New CPI series could combine 2022-23, 2023-24 consumer surveys; annual survey unlikely: Sources is: 
 Policymakers and economists have raised concerns about the outdated nature of the CPI as a measure of inflation. India's new Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation series could be a combination of the results of the 2022-23 and 2023-24 Household Consumer Expenditure Surveys (HCES), according to people aware of developments.On February 24, the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation published a 'fact sheet' on the findings of the 2022-23 (August-July) survey, with the detailed report to be released "subsequently". But with the ministry currently conducting the 2023-24 HCES, set to be completed in July 2024, the groundwork to update the badly-outdated CPI inflation series is far from done.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: MPC's Ashima Goyal says CPI basket needs updating, core inflation may be better targetIt is understood that once the second survey is also completed, an exercise will first be carried out where all options will be examined: a new CPI series based on the 2022-23 survey, another on the 2023-24 survey, and a third on the basis of a weighted average of the two surveys."It is also possible the results of the second survey could be ignored," a government source said.
 
The news published on the date March 18, 2024 10:00 AM IST with headline  Simultaneous polls: Some questions need answers is: 
 Since 1952, simultaneous polls were held in India and that continued up to 1967 The high-powered committee on ‘one nation one election’ (ONOE) formed last year and headed by former President Ram Nath Kovind has submitted its report to President Droupadi Murmu last Thursday. The committee has recommended simultaneous elections from 2029 to all the three tiers, the Lok Sabha, State Assemblies, followed by local bodies.The BJP has been in favour of simultaneous polls since long ago. This promise appeared in their 2019 election manifesto too. If the BJP comes t
 
The news published on the date March 18, 2024 09:08 AM IST with headline  India has little time to lose as new land routes in Central Asia, Iran spring up as trade links is: 
 HighlightsThe Red Sea route troubles have necessitated usage of alternative trade corridors for countriesThe so-called Middle corridor, a predominantly rail route is gaining traction, connecting Central Asia and EuropeMiddle corridor is 4,250 kms of railway lines and just over 500 kms of sea corridors, stretching from China’s Pacific coast into PolandThe corridor has a current total throughput capacity of 5.8 million tons of cargo annually and capacity can be increased to 10 million tons by 2030China ha
 
The news published on the date March 18, 2024 08:52 AM IST with headline  Is the EV policy a bait for Tesla or a bet on realising India’s manufacturing potential? is: 
 Representative image HighlightsThe EV policy offers import duty relief to certain categories of vehiclesThe duty concession aligns with Tesla’s demand for setting up a manufacturing base in IndiaThe policy has riders to ensure that the domestic industry is not left behind in the EV raceAt the same time, the policy should encourage global investment and adoption of cutting-edge technologyBy dropping the protectionist stance, the EV policy signals India’s willingness to open up to encourage local manufacturingWhen the central governmen
 
The news published on the date March 16, 2024 10:54 AM IST with headline  Assam secured over Rs 13,000-crore investments in last 14 months: Himanta Biswa Sarma is: 
 The IIPA was amended in 2023 to attract mega investments of Rs 100 crore and more, with permanent jobs for 200 or more, Himanta Biswa Sarma said in a post on X on Friday Assam has secured investments to the tune of Rs 13,364 crore with employment generation for more than 17,000 people in the last 14 months, Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said.The investments have been committed through 21 proposals, approved by the state cabinet, under the Industrial and Investment Policy of Assam (IIPA), 2019. The investments have been committed through 21 proposals, approved by the state cabinet, under the Industrial and Investment Policy of Assam (IIPA), 2019.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe IIPA was amended in 2023 to attract mega investments of Rs 100 crore and more, with permanent jobs for 200 or more, he said in a post on X on Friday. While MoUs for 14 of these proposals were signed earlier, seven agreements were inked on Friday, he said. While MoUs for 14 of these proposals were signed earlier, seven agreements were inked on Friday, he said."In January 2023, we announced a policy to customise incentives for mega investors. Today, 7 more firms committed to create 6,500 jobs through Rs 2,000 cr of investment,” Himanta Biswa Sarma said. In last 14 months, through this policy, Assam has secured investments of Rs 13,364 crore and 17,700 jobs, the chief minister said.In last 14 months, through this policy, Assam has secured investments of Rs 13,364 crore and 17,700 jobs, the chief minister said. Among the companies that have entered into MoUs so far are PepsiCo India, Star Cement, Jericho Chemicals, Indian Hotels Company Ltd, Maxim Infrastructure Pvt Ltd and Topcem India LLP, officials said.
 
The news published on the date March 16, 2024 09:54 AM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Weekender: Bubble trouble in Wonderland  is: 
 Dear Reader,SEBI chairperson Madhabi Puri Buch scared the markets this week by saying there were pockets of froth in small and midcap stocks that could become a bubble. It wasn’t just talk. She asked all asset management companies to conduct stress tests on small- and mid-cap funds to assess the liquidity of a portfolio in the event of unusual redemption pressure, and to tell investors the results. The Nifty Smallcap index fell around 11 percent in the next few days from its peak. It led to panic in the markets, which was expected, and some bad poetry, which was not. Sample the opening of a ghastly piece with the heading, ‘’ÇryDay The 13th’’ that made the rounds on WhatsApp:Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“We are in a bubble’’Said, SEBI chiefAnd raised a rubble”
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 05:52 PM IST with headline  Business in the Week Ahead (March 18-22, 2024) is: 
 - It’s not an all-clear yet for the markets. The talk of pricey valuations of midcap and small cap stocks has already taken a toll. SEBI chief, Madhabi Puri Buch, has not minced her words as she spoke of signs of price manipulation in SME IPOs and subsequent share trading. Mutual funds have begun announcing results of their stress tests in mid and small cap schemes. While these disclosures will give investors some idea of where they stand
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 04:48 PM IST with headline  The Reading List: March 15, 2024 is: 
 A selection of articles and social media gems from the world of economy, business and finance. In a world strapped for time, we thought you may find it useful to have a selection of articles we read this past week. As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. Occasionally, we may stray from these subjects.These links may be from external websites we frequent o
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 04:30 PM IST with headline  Q3 GDP numbers absolutely mystifying, difficult to comprehend, says former CEA Arvind Subramanian is: 
 The former CEA wondered if India has become such an attractive place, why is not there more foreign direct investment. Former chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian on Friday said India's latest GDP numbers are 'absolutely mystifying' and difficult to comprehend. India's economy grew by better-than-expected 8.4 per cent in the final three months of 2023 - the fastest pace in one-and-half years. India's economy grew by better-than-expected 8.4 per cent in the final three months of 2023 - the fastest pace in one-and-half years."I want to be honest with you that the latest GDP numbers, I just simply can not understand them. "I say that with genuine respect and things. They are absolutely mystifying. They don't add up.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdI don't know what they mean," Arvind Subramanian said while speaking at the India Today conclave. "I say that with genuine respect and things. They are absolutely mystifying. They don't add up. I don't know what they mean," Arvind Subramanian said while speaking at the India Today conclave.The NSO has also revised GDP estimates for the first and second quarters of this fiscal to 8.2 per cent and 8.1 per cent from 7.8 per cent and 7.6 per cent, respectively. Elaborating further, Subramanian said while the implied inflation in these numbers is 1 to 1.5 per cent, actual inflation in the economy is somewhere between 3 and 5 per cent. Elaborating further, Subramanian said while the implied inflation in these numbers is 1 to 1.5 per cent, actual inflation in the economy is somewhere between 3 and 5 per cent."The economy is growing at seven and a half per cent, even though private consumption is at 3 per cent," he pointed out. And in the latest data, Subramanian said errors and omissions, which are not accounted for, are actually about 4.3 percentage points out of the estimated 7.6 per cent growth for FY24. And in the latest data, Subramanian said errors and omissions, which are not accounted for, are actually about 4.3 percentage points out of the estimated 7.6 per cent growth for FY24."So it's a lot of stuff about the numbers which you know, I don't understand. I am not saying these are wrong. That's for others to judge," the former CEA said. According to Subramanian, while the buzz is that the economy has become a very good place to invest in, in the last few quarters, and last few years, it has actually declined very sharply. According to Subramanian, while the buzz is that the economy has become a very good place to invest in, in the last few quarters, and last few years, it has actually declined very sharply."... you can see foreign direct investment actually collapsed quite a bit," he said. The former CEA wondered if India has become such an attractive place, why is not there more foreign direct investment. The former CEA wondered if India has become such an attractive place, why is not there more foreign direct investment.
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 03:32 PM IST with headline  The world needs a soundtrack for the climate crisis is: 
 Chris Martin and his band, Coldplay, are trying to reduce their environmental impact. (Source: Bloomberg/Getty Images) The great social movements of history all had soundtracks. The civil rights movement had jazz, the blues and Nina Simone; its anthem was We Shall Overcome, originally a 19th-century hymn. The story of gay liberation is intertwined with disco culture, and some of the greatest pop songs have been written or adopted as LGBTQ+ anthems, from Gloria Gaynor’s I Will Survive to Born This Way by Lady Gaga. Music brought people together and helped move the dial on public acceptance by introducing ideas to the mainstream.Now, the planet itself needs a new social movement. Widespread behavioural changes are needed to reduce carbon emissions, along with public support for net-zero policies. We need to create a culture of environmentalism, which values nature, if we’re to defeat the climate crisis and biodiversity collapse. So, many people — including Brian Eno, the champion of ambient music — are asking: Where are our climate anthems?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMusicians may struggle to to play the same role in the fight for climate action as they’ve done for other societal changes, given the industry’s carbon footprint and the private planes favoured by its superstars.There’s a temptation to dismiss art and culture’s role in climate communication. Isn’t this a science issue? Shouldn’t musicians just shut up and sing? Scientists and their research have been, and will always be, crucial in raising the alarm on fossil fuels and humanity’s damage to the planet. Rapid weather-attribution studies help make climate change visible and present; the development of low-carbon technologies are helping slash emissions.But who’s more influential to the masses: an atmospheric physicist, or a pop star? Musicians are able to reach far more people — and an entirely different demographic — than scientists or politicians. Nobody needs to hear what musicians think of, say, electricity market reform, but they can be advocates for sustainable lifestyle changes (perhaps Thrift Shop by Macklemore and Ryan Lewis ought to be considered a green tune), raise awareness and compel us to reflect on environmental issues.
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 03:23 PM IST with headline  Drug use at work isn’t biohacking. It’s workaholism is: 
 It’s possible that workaholism is not the cause of substance use problems, but a kind of fellow traveler. Elon Musk reportedly microdoses on ketamine at work; stressed-out female executives are self-medicating with psilocybin; Wall Street may be awash in stimulants. Tech executives are using psychedelics to be more creative, while traders and airline pilots rely on nicotine pouches like Zyn to stay alert. With these headlines, you’d be forgiven for thinking that everyone in a high-pressure job — or with serious ambition to climb the ladder — is now doing drugs.Not to sound like the nun at the orgy but: None of this is a good idea. We all know the risks drugs pose. Addiction. Overdose. Long-term health problems. The possibility that what one buys on the street — or from a coworker — could be contaminated with something more dangerous.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIt’s hard to get a concrete picture of drug use by professionals because, well, data on illicit drug use isn’t broken out by industry or job title. But even if the anecdote-driven reports oversell the problem, it’s clear that the “just say no” and “this is your brain on drugs” eras are a relic of the past.“We’re in a relatively more permissive culture for use of many substances now,” says Dr. Rocco Iannucci, an expert on substance use disorders at McLean Hospital, the mental health arm of Harvard Medical School. “And maybe a really stressful culture at the same time.” That’s a dangerous recipe.Many of the professionals using illicit substances are working long hours and feel like they don’t have time to unwind, exercise, or connect with friends or family. That can fuel a desire for a quick fix to feel better, Iannucci says. Or they’re looking for something to help them keep working.
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 04:03 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Markets need their Vitamin D too, as disclosures make them stronger is: 
 Gainers & Losers Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA recent study by Tata 1mg Labs revealed that 3 out of 4 Indians suffer from Vitamin D deficiency. Inadequate exposure to sunlight is a primary factor. Vitamin D is critical to a healthy and active life and to keep diseases at bay but we are here to discuss another Vitamin D -- Disclosures.In every way, a healthy and vibrant capital market also needs its dosage of Vitamin D through regular disclosures of pertinent information. Indeed, information asymmetry is a big reason why markets become inefficient, illiquid, and sometimes even illogical.Disclosures were at the centre of the Securities and Exchange Board of India’s (SEBI) move to instil some caution into the equity market. SEBI has mandated that mutual fund houses must conduct a stress test of their funds and publish this information for the benefit of investors. We explain here what are these stress tests and my colleague N Mahalakshmi explains lucidly here the importance of these stress tests.
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 09:04 PM IST with headline  India's oilmeals export up 9% to nearly 5.16 lakh tonne in February on higher soyameal shipments is: 
 India's oilmeals export up 9% to nearly 5.16 lakh tonne in February on higher soyameal shipments Oilmeals export rose 9 per cent year-on-year in February to nearly 5.16 lakh tonnes on higher outward shipments of soyabean meal, according to trade data.In a statement on Friday, Solvent Extraction of India (SEA) said the export of oilmeals in February stood at 515,704 tonne as compared to 4,71,770 tonne in the year-ago period.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOf the total oilmeals export last month, the shipments of soyabean meal stood at 3,47,905 tonne and rapeseed meal 1,44,372 tonne.The data showed that the total export of oilmeals during the April-February period of this fiscal increased 19 per cent to 44,90,055 tonne as compared to 37,60,329 tonne in the corresponding period of the previous year.The export of soybean meal during the April-February period of the 2023-24 fiscal rose to 19.34 lakh tonne compared to 7.87 lakh tonne in the same period of the previous year as Indian soybean meal was most competitive in the international market.
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 04:48 PM IST with headline  Who is Santiago Martin, the biggest political donor through electoral bonds? is: 
 Santiago Martin and electoral bonds Future Gaming and Hotel Services, the company owned by Santiago Martin, has emerged as the top donor to political parties via electoral bonds, according to the published on the Election Commission website on March 14.The company bought electoral bonds worth Rs 1,300 crore approximately between 2019 and 2024. The poll panel uploaded the data on its website as received from the State Bank of India (SBI) after the Supreme Court's directions.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWho is Santiago Martin?From his humble beginnings to his current stature as a lottery king, Martin's journey has been a rollercoaster ride. Born in a modest family, Martin began dabbling in the lottery business at the age of 13, according to his LinkedIn profile, laying the foundation for what would later become his empire.The business, according to his profile on the professional networking site, has reported an average annual growth of 109 percent, with a professional strength of more than 1,000 committed staff and more than 260 stockiest in all lottery playing states. Besides the lottery business, his interests range from real estate, construction, alternative energy, visual media entertainment, textiles and yarn, hospitality, health care and education, software and technology, property development, agro and building materials.
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 08:56 PM IST with headline  India's February trade deficit widens to $18.71 billion, exports at 11-month high is: 
 The Commerce Ministry released trade data for February 2024 on March 15. India's merchandise trade deficit widened to $18.71 billion in February from $17.49 billion in January, the commerce ministry said on March 15. The trade deficit stood at $16.57 billion in February 2023.While the trade deficit widened in February, exports rose by 11.9 percent from the year-ago period to $41.40 billion and imports were up 12.2 percent at $60.11 billion.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: Swiss watches, chocolates set to get cheaper for IndiansAt $41.40 billion, India's merchandise exports in February were the highest in 11 months. The last time they were higher was in March 2023, when they come in at $41.96 billion. Imports, meanwhile, were at a four-month high.
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 02:08 PM IST with headline  Aswath Damodaran: ‘Investing is an act of faith’ is: 
 - Professor Aswath Damodaran of New York University is probably the world’s pre-eminent academic expert on equity valuation. His Musings on Markets blog is widely followed on Wall Street, and his views on companies from Tesla to Netflix are much debated. He also puts his money where his mouth is, investing personally based on his assessments of corporate value. He spoke to Unhedged last week.Unhedged: Do you think the S&P 500 is fairly valued right now?Damodaran: There ar
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 02:20 PM IST with headline  Electoral bonds: BJP top receiver at Rs 6,061 crore, TMC 2nd with Rs 1,610 crore is: 
 On the whole, 24 political parties received donations through electoral bonds over the last five years amounting to Rs 12,769 crore. The Bharatiya Janata Party was by far the biggest beneficiary of the electoral bonds scheme, receiving Rs 6,061 crore as political donations in the last five years, according to data submitted by State Bank of India (SBI) to the Election Commission of India of March 14. This amounts to 48 percent of all electoral bonds encashed by political parties since the start of 2019-20 and before it was ruled unconstitutional by the Supreme Court earlier this year.At second place is Trinamool Congress, which mopped up Rs 1,610 crore, followed by the Indian National Congress at Rs 1,422 crore.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: From lottery to milkshake, top 20 electoral bond donors gave nearly Rs 6,000 croreRounding off the top five are Bharat Rashtra Samithi, formerly Telangana Rashtra Samithi, with Rs 1,215 crore and the Biju Janata Dal with Rs 776 crore.
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 12:39 PM IST with headline  Tim Harford: Why Swifties, holidaymakers and the hygienic should cheer for surge pricing is: 
 If Taylor Swift is playing in Seattle one weekend, it would be a good idea for people who aren’t Swifties to holiday either on a different weekend or in a different city. The “Wendy’s Dave’s Triple” is a fast-food offering that stacks two possessives and three hamburgers. I am not sure how easy it is to swallow in either regard, but what has really been sticking in people’s throats is the prospect of surge pricing at the Wendy’s fast-food chain.A few weeks ago, the new CEO of Wendy’s announced that the company would be installing new digital menu displays that would allow “dynamic pricing” — that is, changing th
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 12:37 PM IST with headline  What is the role of the Financial Intelligence Unit? is: 
 FIU-IND was established in 2004 While it does not really act in the shadows, it does not seek headlines either, but the Financial Intelligence Unit-India was in the news recently when it imposed a penalty of Rs 5.49 crore on Paytm Payments Bank on March 1 for violating norms pertaining to money-laundering. So what is this office? Since it was set up in 2004, FIU-IND has significantly strengthened the country's anti-money-laundering and counter-terrorist financing framework. By serving as a centralised hub for financial intelligence, FIU-IND enables proactive detection and disruption of illicit financial activities, thereby safeguarding the integrity of the nation's financial system.Establishment Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFIU-IND was established in 2004 as a specialised agency under the Ministry of Finance. Its primary mandate is to serve as the central national agency responsible for receiving, processing, analysing and disseminating information related to suspicious financial transactions. These transactions could be indicative of money laundering, terrorist financing or other illegal activities.Under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), certain categories of organisations are required to register with FIU-IND as reporting entities. These reporting entities are mandated to comply with various regulations on anti-money laundering and combating terror financing (AML/CTF) and are tasked with reporting certain types of financial transactions to FIU-IND. These include banks and financial institutions, stockbrokers and depository participants, payment system operators, insurance companies, mutual funds and asset management companies, among others.Earlier notices
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 02:20 PM IST with headline  India needs to rally behind its edtech startups, beginning with Byju’s is: 
 New-age companies like Byju’s can significantly move the needle in ensuring that students can consistently gain access to standardised quality education on a seamless basis. It is still unclear who finally wins the battle for control of edtech startup Byju’s - the company's founder Byju Raveendran or the marquee investors who want him out of the firm.Seen from a broader perspective, though, which side eventually has its way in the ongoing tug-of-war is much less important than Byju’s remaining on solid ground. Since the only thing that should really matter is that the founder-investor confrontation does not come in the way of the startup’s ability to make a significant difference in India’s education arena and in showcasing the nation’s startup prowess.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAdding Value If there was such a thing as systemically important startups in India, Byju’s would find a prominent place in such an arrangement. Not just for the immense value that it adds to the country’s education sector by enhancing education accessibility but also for the sheer weight it adds to the startup arena when it comes to showcasing how far India has travelled in the startup domain. At one point, Byju’s was India’s most valued startup enjoying a $22 billion valuation. As of 2023, India had more than 100,000 registered startups.As the world’s most populous country with its stated commitment to the ‘development for all’ principle, India needs promising edtech startups like Byju’s to remain in a good place. The reasons for that are simple.
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 11:38 AM IST with headline  Japan Carmakers: Speed up consolidation to compete with China’s EVs is: 
 nissan-ev Media reports that rival Japanese automakers Nissan Motor Co and Honda Motor Co are potentially entering into a partnership feel so unlikely it’s as if Messi and Ronaldo are set to play on the same football team, or that Taylor Swift is about to drop an album with Kanye West.The automakers have jostled for years for second place behind Toyota Motor Corp. The two rejected out of hand merger talks that had been proposed by government officials five years ago, the Financial Timesreported in 2020. According to the newspaper, authorities were prompted to propose it by the state of the Japanese auto industry and worries about a potential Nissan collapse.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThis week’s story is much less ambitious, involving just a potential partnership on electric-vehicle procurement and development. But the need to concentrate forces may now be even more acute, with both companies’ sales in China in freefall as customers in the world’s largest auto market switch to EVs.I don’t hew to the commonly held idea that Japan has been “slow” to shift — as sales growth slows, we’re seeing more and more evidence that the mad dash to an electric-only future was likely a strategic error, and that fully electric cars will be just one part of where the auto industry goes from here.But it’s undeniable that the industry is in a state of rapid flux. China sees an opportunity to dominate, and just as it did with sectors from steel to solar panels, it’s unlikely to always play fair. Huge investment in technology is needed, from batteries to automated driving systems. And Taiwan-based Hon Hai Precision Industry Co, better known as iPhone maker Foxconn,wants to turn making vehicles into a commodity just like smartphones.
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 10:50 AM IST with headline  The trouble with narratives like Japan is back, China is over is: 
 Does the current mood exaggerate China’s shortcomings and give enough space to things that it’s doing well? (Source: Bloomberg/Getty Images) Japan is back, China is over. Only a few years ago, such an assertion would have been dismissed out of hand. The latter was on the road to economic dominance and the former languished, characterised by endless stimulus that produced little tangible benefit, and doomed by a shrinking population. This narrative was overdue for a correction, and an alternative has finally arrived. Unfortunately, it shares some of the flaws of the old story.The contemporary crush on Japan has much to commend it. Wages are gathering steam, the Nikkei 225 stock index recently surpassed the peak reached in the late 1980s, when the nation was seen as having some magic sauce that drove its ascent, and the central bank is preparing to end the world's last remaining experiment in negative interest rates. Even the difficult demographics look reasonable relative to Singapore, South Korea — and China. Like a classic market overshoot, few people are eager to speak ill of newly cool Japan.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe appetite for good news has reached almost absurd levels. Bank of Japan officials are called hawkish for desiring to push borrowing costs from a bit less than sero to around sero. Such a step, which may come as soon as next week, is rich in symbolism. The development is also miles away from the hiking cycle embarked upon by the Federal Reserve or the European Central Bank. Yes, deflation is behind and inflation is now hovering around the 2 percent target. But that is mild compared with the clip of price increases in the US, which exceeded 9 percent at one point in 2022. Context of this kind doesn't get aired enough. Japan's challenges haven't gone away, just as the country wasn't totally washed up during the so-called lost decades.The troubles in China's economy have been building for a while. The country was enduring a long-term slowdown even before efforts to control Covid produced a rare decline in gross domestic product in the first months of 2020. But people had fallen in love with a China that possessed unique attributes and had enjoyed a historic rise in living standards. It took time for this vision to dislodge. When the idea of an invincible China did take a fall last year, it did so with a vengeance.A recent statistical anecdote about Germany and Japan is revealing of the current mood. When Tokyo first reported GDP numbers for the fourth quarter of 2023, the data showed not only that Japan slipped into a recession, subsequently revised away, but that the country had ceded the No. 3 place in the world economic league to Germany. The change rated a perfunctory mention in many news stories, probably because nobody is impressed by the current form of Europe's commercial power. Germany has experienced pretty stagnant growth lately.
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 10:48 AM IST with headline  Indian economy has made it to the launchpad. It still needs a spark is: 
 The Indian economy had apparently grown at an annualised rate of 8.4 percent. As India prepares for elections this spring, confidence about the country’s prospects seems ubiquitous. The country has just finalised a new trade agreement; it’s with a small trading bloc composed of Norway, Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Iceland, but the headline number for new foreign investment it commits to bringing in, $100 billion, is nevertheless eye-catching. The stock markets are at record highs, and most expect them to rise even higher.This year, Indian debt will begin to be included in global bond indexes, starting with JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s products in June, followed by the Bloomberg Emerging Market Local Currency Government Index from January 2025. (Disclaimer: Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, offers index products for various asset classes through Bloomberg Index Services Ltd.) And, when last quarter’s growth numbers were announced in the past fortnight, analysts were startled to see that the Indian economy had apparently grown at an annualised rate of 8.4 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThere are certainly solid grounds for optimism. India’s macroeconomic stability is impressive compared to many of its peers. Pandemic spending wasn’t excessive. The fiscal deficit has been steadily shrinking as a proportion of gross domestic product. The rupee has been remarkably stable. And “core” inflation, which excludes food and fuel prices, has eased to 3.3 percent year-on-year, according to data released this week.Some of this stability is hard-won, born of tough choices that the government in New Delhi has made. Fuel taxes are kept high to feed government revenue, for example, and an inflation target has been institutionalised for the country’s central bank.Yet, even if some investors and sell-side analysts are touting India as “the best structural growth opportunity in emerging markets, if not the world,” it is worth looking beyond the hype to the real reasons for some of these surging indicators, to judge whether India’s growth is assured in coming years.
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 10:50 AM IST with headline  Will a new pharmaceutical marketing code succeed where earlier attempts failed? is: 
 When was the last time you heard a pharma association pull up a member for even serious violations of the law? Highlights:The government has notified a circular that prescribes a uniform marketing code to be followed by pharmaceutical companiesThis will be yet another attempt to regulate the practices adopted by companies to push their medicines to doctors for prescribing to patientsHowever, the code is a voluntary one that industry associations are expected to hold their members accountable toLack of legal enforcement of the code means that it may suffer the same fate as earlier attempts to rein i
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 10:12 AM IST with headline  Mid and small cap lure frays a bit: What's next for investors? is: 
 A decisive move past 22,300-zone for Nifty can anticipate further movement in the coming days, say analysts HighlightsSharp rise in annualised returns of small, mid-cap funds are attracting investors by drovesAUM of mid-cap and small cap funds has risen by 2.5 times and 5 times respectively in past four yearsSmall, mid-caps with low liquidity are seen as most risky and require careful watchingA correction in small cap cannot be ruled outInvestors must look at quality of small caps to determine whether to hold on or exitThe small and mid-cap fever has caught the spotligh
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 10:49 AM IST with headline  Five ways India’s next growth cycle is different is: 
 The size of the Indian economy is expected to rise 1.9 times to $6.7 trillion by fiscal 2031 from $3.6 trillion this fiscal. By Amish Mehta In the three decades leading up to the Covid-19 pandemic, India’s gross domestic product (GDP) grew at an annual average of 6.2 percent. The recovery after the pandemic was swift, and the country has grown faster than 7 percent in the past three fiscals.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThis fiscal growth is foreseen at 7.6 percent, above the consensus estimates of the past.But moderation looms. High interest rates and a gradual reduction in the fiscal impulse to growth — because the government has to pursue fiscal consolidation — would slow GDP growth to 6.8 percent next fiscal.Still good enough to keep the fastest-growing large economy crown.
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 08:40 AM IST with headline  MC Pro Inside Edge: HNIs harvest tax losses with a smile, DB QIP’s reality, MFs clean up portfolios, double whammy for merchant bankers is: 
 Tax holidayCut your losses and let your winners run is one of the popular stock market adages. High net worth individuals seem to swear by this rule even while planning for taxes. Having earned handsome returns from their winners (even if much of it is still on paper), HNIs are clinging on to them in the hope these stocks will continue to rise. At the same time, they have been dumping stocks that have gone nowhere ove
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 07:23 AM IST with headline  Commodity Trade: A bullish Marubozu pattern seen at the breakout in Crude Oil is: 
 Crude Oi
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 07:14 AM IST with headline  Unicorns to add $1 trillion to economy by 2030, generate 50 million jobs: CII study is: 
 Unicorns to add $1 trillion to economy by 2030, generate 50 million jobs: CII study New unicorns are likely to add USD 1 trillion to the Indian economy, which would reach USD 7 trillion size by 2030, and add 50 million new jobs, according to a report released by industry body CII on Thursday.Startup firms valued over USD 1 billion are categorised as unicorns.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe report 'Unicorn 2.0: Adding the Next Trillion' has been prepared with McKinsey & Company as the knowledge partner, the chamber said.The CII report introduces an ambitious 'Unicorn 2.0' scenario, envisioning the startup ecosystem's potential to add USD 1 trillion to India's estimated USD 7 trillion economy by FY30, thereby creating over 50 million jobs.Sectors such as retail and e-commerce, next-gen financial services, manufacturing, and SaaS and digital are poised to drive massive growth in the coming years.
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 06:20 AM IST with headline  Options Trade: A non-directional options strategy setup in HDFC Bank is: 
 HDFC Ban
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 06:16 AM IST with headline  Cash Trade: Bharti Airtel breaks out of a cup-and-handle trend continuation pattern
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 01:12 AM IST with headline  Morgan Stanley sees India investments growing faster than consumption in current cycle is: 
 Morgan Stanley economists see India’s Gross Fixed Capital Formation, a proxy for investments, rising to 36 percent of GDP in 2026-27. Investments in India are set to grow faster than consumption for the next few years, according to Morgan Stanley economists, who see Gross Fixed Capital Formation (GFCF) rising to 36 percent of GDP in 2026-27."Real GFCF growth continued to hold strong at 10.5 percent in 4Q23 (October-December 2023), staying above the pre-Covid 2017-18 average of 9.6 percent," Morgan Stanley economists said in a report on March 13.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: What does 12-year-low core inflation say about India's growth story?"On the flip side, private consumption (growth) is still relatively weak, tracking at just 3.5 percent in 4Q23, below the pre-Covid 2017-18 average of 6.5 percent," they added.
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 07:37 PM IST with headline  PTC India Financial scouting for MD, CEO amid intensified regulatory scrutiny is: 
 PTC India Financial has been under the scanner for over two years after three independent directors quit citing corporate governance issues. Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × PTC India Financial Services (PFS) is on the lookout for a new Managing Director (MD) and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) amid intensified regulatory scrutiny, after the attempt to appoint one in 2023 did not work out.In October 2023, the board had given an in-principle approval to a candidate but he withdrew after engaging with the company for five months due to delays and alleged interference by the current management.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe non-banking financial subsidiary of PTC India has been under a regulatory scanner for over two years since three independent directors resigned from the PFS board flagging concerns over corporate governance issues. The position of MD and CEO has not been filled for almost nine months, since Pawan Singh stepped down after being forced to go on leave following a Reserve Bank of India (RBI) directive.“The recruitment process is being handled by an experienced HR consulting Firm. We expect a good response to the advertisement.,” PFS said in a response to a detailed query from Moneycontrol.PFS has invited applications from potential candidates to select an MD and CEO, the last date for which is March 15. The appointment is critical since Mahendra Lodha, the company’s Director (Finance) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), who was handling the additional charge of MD and CEO since June 2023, has resigned and his last day at work is March 15.
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 03:08 PM IST with headline  Battle over state finances heats up as Kerala rejects another offer from Centre is: 
 The Supreme Court will next hear Kerala’s plea against the central government on March 21. Kerala has rejected yet another offer by the Centre, allowing it an advanced and additional borrowing space of Rs 5,000 crore in the current fiscal, on the grounds that it is insufficient. The first offer was made in February 2024. Kerala seeks advance borrowing of Rs 15,000 crore.The dispute between the two sides reached the doors of the top court of the country in December after bilateral talks didn't yield results. The Supreme Court will next hear Kerala’s plea against the central government over the states’ borrowing limit on March 21.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMoneycontrol explains what round two of the tussle between the two sides entailed.Documents sourced by Moneycontrol showed that the government of India modified its offer to Kerala, ready to give its consent for the state to borrow Rs 5,000 crore now instead of on April 1, 2024, subject to certain conditions.However, the Pinarayi Vijayan-led Kerala government told the Supreme Court that “Rs 5,000 crore would not take it anywhere.”
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 03:49 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | ‘Tis the time to cherry-pick stocks is: 
 It is time to check for hammered stocks that hold value and promise in future. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAfter all the ranting about a battered stock market and Indian equities being overvalued, Thursday seems to have brought back a smile on the investor’s face. By noon, the BSE Sensex was up by around 490 points and the Nifty 50 by around 200 points. Alarmingly, while the benchmark indices are up by about 1 percent, the small and midcap indices, which fell consistently last week, are up by about 2-3 per cent.The voices of doom seem to be fading already. What must a retail investor, especially a newbie in equities, do? This question comes to mind given that February marked the third consecutive month of over 40 lakh retail demat accounts being opened. So, it’s a vicious cycle -- more accounts bring more money to fire up markets and rising indices lure more retail investors into D-Street because of the Fear of Missing Out (FOMO) factor.All macroeconomic data point to India being a great long-term growth story that will gain momentum once the general elections are behind us. So, it may be fool-hardy to unwind completely from equity investments in your portfolio. As investment guru Warren Buffett said – “buy the dip”. It is time to check for hammered stocks that hold value and promise in future.
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 02:21 PM IST with headline  Oodles of instant noodles: how a global favourite became an economic red flag is: 
 Instant noodles sit among the most potent weapons ever devised in the unending struggle against starvation. Leo LewisIf the entire (cooked) length of instant noodles sold around the world in a single year were laid out in a line, the resulting 6.2bn kilometre giga-noodle would stretch well beyond Pluto and into the depths of space. It is a fact as miserable as it is marvellous.Instant noodles sit among the most potent weapons ever devised in the unending struggle against starvation: a product that towers, among processed foods, at the extreme value end o
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 02:21 PM IST with headline  India's wholesale inflation edges down to 0.20% in February is: 
 Wholesale inflation stood at 3.85 percent in February 2023. India's wholesale inflation rate edged down to 0.20 percent in February, data released by the commerce ministry on March 14 showed.Wholesale Price Index (WPI) inflation stood at 0.2 percent in January and 3.85 percent in February 2023.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt 0.20 percent, the February wholesale inflation print is the lowest in four months. The last time WPI inflation was lower was in October 2023, when it came in at -0.26 percent. So far in 2023-24, WPI inflation has averaged -0.8 percent.Wholesale prices increased at a slower pace in February even though food inflation rose to 4.09 percent from 3.79 percent in January, pushed up by wheat inflation jumping to 2.34 percent after being at -3.14 percent in the first month of 2024. Pulses inflation, too, rose further to 18.48 percent.
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 11:55 AM IST with headline  Private credit has had its 15 minutes of fame is: 
 PE’s golden goose is loosing its shine. (Source: Bloomberg) Just as private credit is becoming an asset class of its own and private equity houses are finding a new revenue stream away from their bread-and-butter buyout businesses, this burgeoning part of leveraged finance is losing steam.Direct lending has been its crowning achievement. Credit was not only extended to smaller companies that had limited access to public markets, but to back big buyout deals that in the past relied on banks to arrange syndicated loans or junk bond issues. Firms such as HPS Investment Partners Llc, a spinoff from JPMorgan Asset Management in 2016, were among private lenders that single-handedly underwrote billion-dollar loans. Last year, direct lending funds managed more than $550 billion, up from $95 billion a decade earlier, according to PitchBook. Investors in these funds, in turn, were able to earn 12 percent returns.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBut the conditions that led to such huge success are unwinding. After two years of ceding turf to direct lenders, investment banks, which are the public credit markets’ gatekeepers, are striking back.So far this year, 21 companies managed to refinance $8.3 billion of debt that was previously provided by private lenders via broadly syndicated loans, data from PitchBook show. Among those was Caliber Collision Inc, a B-rated auto-repair chain owned by private equity firm Hellman & Friedman Llc. The company retired expensive second-lien debt in January, using part of the $4 billion proceeds from bond and loan sales.Banks are reclaiming their market share in leveraged buyout, too. Last month, JPMorgan Chase & Co arranged a $5 billion debt deal for KKR & Co’s purchase of healthcare tech company Cotiviti Inc, upstaging private lenders.
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 11:32 AM IST with headline  It’s too late to China-proof the lithium supply chain is: 
 A lithium partner rather than a rival. (Source:Bloomberg) In a world where electric vehicles and utility-scale batteries are taking over, it would be nice to not depend on a geopolitical rival for your most important raw material.That’s been the thinking of leaders from developed countries, who’ve been seeking ways to China-proof the market for lithium, the light metal that’s essential for high-performance rechargeable power packs.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“Parts of our key supply chains, including for clean energy, are currently over-concentrated in China,” US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said earlier this month during a visit to Chile, home to the largest lithium reserves. Second-ranked Australia last May entered a compact with the US to ensure reliable supplies of such critical minerals, with Canberra in October putting A$2 billion ($1.3 billion) into a financing facility to support exports.There’s just one problem with all these plans: They’re coming nearly a decade too late. If rich democracies wanted to build a clean-energy industry free of Beijing’s influence, they should have had their checkbooks out when miners and processors were starved of cash during the 2010s. The global lithium industry is so interwoven with Chinese capital now that it’s going to be impossible to unpick.Take Albemarle Corp., the Charlotte, North Carolina-based miner whose processing plant Yellen visited during her trip to Chile. Its most important asset is a 49 percent stake in Greenbushes, a pit in Western Australia that’s the world’s largest deposit of lithium ore. Majority control, however, has been ultimately held for more than a decade by Chengdu-based Tianqi Lithium Corp.
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 02:03 PM IST with headline  Fitch revises India's FY25 GDP growth forecast to 7% from 6.5% is: 
 Fitch revises India's FY25 GDP growth forecast to 7% from 6.5% Global ratings agency Fitch Ratings raised India's FY25 GDP growth forecast to 7 percent from 6.5 percent earlier as it expects the economy to continue its strong expansion.Fitch expects 50 bps rate cut by the Reserve Bank of India from July to December and foresees India's CPI inflation gradually declining to 4 percent by the end of 2024. RBI has kept the repo rate unchanged at 6.5 percent for the last six consecutive meetings and has reiterated its commitment to reaching the 4 percent inflation target on a sustainable basis.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Prospects for EM (ex China) have also brightened, particularly in India, where we now expect growth to reach 7.8 percent in the fiscal year ending March 2024 (FY24) and 7 percent in FY25, both sizeable upward revisions. With GDP growth having exceeded 8 percent for three consecutive quarters, we expect an easing in growth momentum in the final quarter of the current fiscal year, implying an estimate of 7.8 percent for growth in FY23-24," said Fitch."Domestic demand, especially investment, will be the main driver of growth, amid sustained levels of business and consumer confidence," Fitch said."Our forecasts imply that growth in the short term will outpace the economy's estimated potential, and that the pace of growth of activity will then moderate towards trend in FY25."
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 09:00 AM IST with headline  Here an SKM, there an SKM, and the threat to farmers’ unity is: 
 The divisions among the farmers is not to their benefit. Farmers are back in the national capital. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) had given a call to farmers across the country to congregate at the historic Ramlila Maidan on March 14 for a “mahapanchayat” to pressure the Union government to deliver on their promises on MSP, crop damage compensation and other agrarian issues.Even as the SKM is organising this grand meeting, its splinter faction which is known as SKM (non-political) is holding fort at the Shambhu and Khanauri borders that separate Punjab from Haryana. Questions are being asked if there are schisms between the two farmers’ groups.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOne can assume there is a widening gulf, just by reading the writing on the wall or even their press releases. The splinter faction overtly calls itself the SKM (non-political) or SKM(NP) because it wants to distinguish itself from the larger body of farmers’ unions – SKM though both groups are essentially demanding the same things.SKM And SKM (Non-Political)The reason for the schism is believed to be the strong non-political stance of SKM(NP). The SKM (non-political) wanted to distinguish themselves from the earlier farm leaders who had quit SKM and contested in the Punjab elections.
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 08:53 AM IST with headline  Is the $100 bn FDI target under the India-EFTA trade agreement achievable? is: 
 Cutting-edge sectors like robotics, automation and precision engineering will require considerable FDI, and investments therein would greatly benefit India’s medium sized companies particularly in the engineering industry HighlightsThe EFTA is unique in that it incorporates a FDI target of $100 billion into India although this is not a governmental commitmentWill this investment materialise is the question, considering India is opening up its market to these four countriesThere is adequate scope for India to benefit from the EFTA if it manages to secure investments in critical areas of interest such as green energy for example and it leads to technology transferThe EFTA countries will attemp
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 07:45 AM IST with headline  The market realises small may not necessarily be beautiful is: 
 Putting it in practical terms, most small companies are very vulnerable Wednesday’s crash in small and midcap stocks has been attributed to the Sebi chief’s remarks on froth in small caps, a crackdown by regulators on errant intermediaries and, of course, on the high valuations of small cap stocks that have soared on the back of a buying frenzy by retail investors. Many analysts have been warning about the unrealistic expectations from small cap stocks for quite some time. It was a bubble in search of a pin.Bu
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 06:04 AM IST with headline  Options Trade | A non-directional options strategy setup in Kotak Mahindra Bank is: 
 Kotak Mahindra Ban
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 06:01 AM IST with headline  Cash Trade: INTELLECT trades strong in a weak market
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 06:00 AM IST with headline  Futures Trade: LTI Mindtree price action shows a classic downtrend
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 10:51 PM IST with headline  Stocks flat, US yields edge higher ahead of data is: 
 Stocks flat, US yields edge higher ahead of data A gauge of global stocks was little changed on Wednesday, pausing after equities in Europe and the U.S. hit record levels in the prior session, as investors looked to the next round of data on inflation and consumer health.Stocks in Europe and the S&P 500 closed at records in the prior session, shaking off a slightly hotter than expected reading on U.S. consumer inflation (CPI), with the S&P 500 also getting a lift from a surge in Oracle shares after its quarterly earnings.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe inflation data did little to alter expectations that the Federal Reserve will cut rates by at least 25 basis points (bps) at its June meeting, currently at 65.5% according to CME's FedWatch Tool.Investors will get another round of inflation data in the form of the U.S. producer price index (PPI) on Thursday, along with data on consumer spending and the labor market, before next week's policy meeting for the Fed."Out of earnings season the focus will shift back to the Federal Reserve, inflation readouts, just how hot the labor market is," said Keith Buchanan, senior portfolio manager at GLOBALT Investments in Atlanta.
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 07:53 PM IST with headline  More than two-thirds of Indians better off compared to 2019, optimistic about future: News18 poll is: 
 The survey, India's biggest opinion poll, covers a sample size of over 1.18 lakh eligible voters across 21 states and different demographic backgrounds. There seems to be a high level of optimism in the economy, with two out of every three Indians polled saying their economic situation is now better than what it was five years ago. This is one of the key findings from the News18 mega opinion poll.The survey, which received 1.19 lakh responses, saw 67 percent declaring that they were situated better financially than they were five years ago, with 68 percent of males and 64 percent of females agreeing with the same. It was a near-even split when it came to the rural-urban front, with 67 percent and 66 percent, respectively, echoing the view.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: Jobs, prices, safety top priorities for voters ahead of polls, finds News18 surveyData released on February 29 showed India's GDP grew by an impressive 8.4 percent in the last quarter of 2023, far higher than any forecast. Before that, on February 24, the statistics ministry's latest Consumer Expenditure Survey showed per capita monthly consumption expenditure in rural areas was 40 percent higher in 2022-23 (August-July) in real terms compared to 2011-12 (July-June).
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 07:50 PM IST with headline  Jobs, prices, and safety top priorities for voters ahead of Lok Sabha polls: News18 poll is: 
 The survey, India's biggest opinion poll, covers a sample size of over 1.18 lakh eligible voters across 21 states and different demographic backgrounds. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's key promise when he was first voted to power in 2014 was about jobs. As he makes a bid for a third term in the 2024 general election, jobs continue to be the focal point for Indian voters. This is one of the findings of a News18 mega opinion poll conducted across 21 states between February 12 and March 1.The survey, which polled 1.19 lakh people, saw 56 percent of respondents list jobs as one of the three most important factors when it comes to determining which party they would vote for in the general election.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: Most Indians support women’s reservation in Parliament, state assemblies – News18 pollAt 47 percent, inflation was the second-most cited factor, with law and order close on its heels at 46 percent.While India is the world's fastest growing large economy and is expected to clock a GDP growth rate of 7.6 percent in 2023-24, questions have been raised in some quarters about whether the growth has been uniform and if enough jobs are being created. Critics often cite the huge number of applicants for a limited number of government posts as a sign of insufficient number of jobs being generated. But the government's latest Periodic Labour Force Survey showed the all-India unemployment rate fell to 5.0 percent in 2023 from 5.7 percent the previous year.
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 05:05 PM IST with headline  Inflows Into Index-Eligible India Bonds Set to Hit $10 Billion is: 
 Inflows Into Index-Eligible India Bonds Set to Hit $10 Billion Foreign inflows into India’s sovereign bond market are closing in on the $10 billion mark ahead of the country’s inclusion in the JPMorgan Chase & Co’s emerging markets debt index.Investments into index-eligible Fully Accessible Route bonds have risen by 812.18 billion rupees ($9.8 billion) since the announcement in September, data from the Clearing Corp. of India show. Inclusion starts in phases from June.Story continues below AdvertisementThe biggest purchases are in the shorter bonds maturing between 2026 and 2030, the data show. The highest foreign holding is in the 7.37% 2028 note, accounting for 20.8% of the outstanding.“Rupee sovereign bonds are poised for further gains on strong foreign inflows, largely front-running the upcoming bond index inclusion,” analysts at DBS Bank led by Radhika Rao wrote in a note.Bloomberg Index Services Ltd. will also include some India bonds in its emerging market local currency index starting next year. Bloomberg LP is the parent company of Bloomberg Index Services Ltd., which administers indexes that compete with those from other service providers.The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond slipped to 7.01% on Monday, the lowest since June
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 04:30 PM IST with headline  More than half of major Indian states are facing higher rural inflation vs urban is: 
 India's rural inflation for the previous month stood at 5.34 percent, significantly higher than the urban CPI rate that came in at 4.78 percent. In line with the all-India trend, more than half of the 22 major states and union territories faced higher rural inflation compared to urban areas in February 2024, according to a government release. The release covered 22 major states and union territories that have a population of over 50 lakh as per 2011 census data.India's rural inflation for the previous month stood at 5.34 percent, significantly higher than the urban Consumer Price Index (CPI) rate of 4.78 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTen out of the 22 major states and union territories registered rural inflation rates higher than the national average.Data released by the Statistics Ministry on March 12 showed that India's combined (rural and urban) headline retail inflation rate was largely unchanged at 5.09 percent in February compared to 5.10 percent in January.While CPI inflation remained within the Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) tolerance range of 2 percent to 6 percent for the sixth consecutive month, it has now spent 53 months in a row above the medium-term target of 4 percent.
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 03:51 PM IST with headline  Rupee logs worst day in 3 weeks as outflows, weak Asian peers weigh is: 
 Rupee logs worst day in 3 weeks as outflows, weak Asian peers weigh The Indian rupee logged its worst day against the dollar in nearly three weeks on Wednesday, pressured by foreign outflows, while weakness in regional peers following hotter-than-expected inflation data in the United States also weighed.The rupee closed at 82.8625 to the dollar, down from its previous close of 82.7675, recording its biggest single-session decline since Feb. 23.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe local unit was under pressure due to an outflow of around $2 billion pertaining to British American Tobacco's stake sale in Indian conglomerate ITC, traders said."The outflows because of a block deal is, of course, a temporary blip," said Jigar Trivedi, senior research analyst – currencies and commodities at Reliance Securities.However, considering the weakness in the equity markets and the trend in the dollar index, the rupee may weaken to 83.00 and eventually to 83.20, he added.
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 02:21 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | The road to stability is paved with penalties is: 
 Investors know that there is more coming from regulators and the market is understandably nervous. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOver the past weeks, India’s regulators have kicked into serious action to snuff out potential fires in the financial markets. The Reserve Bank of India’s clean-up that began with hiking risk weights on unsecured lending last year continued with the banking regulator now asking card issuers to give customers the choice to pick networks. It also increased oversight on co-branded credit cards and media reports state that the RBI is increasingly antsy on how such cards operate. The RBI is also said to be looking at the peer to peer lending space, which has grown by leaps and bounds.On the other side of the financial pond, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has sent out warnings to investors standing to lose money because of froth in the smallcap space. SEBI asked mutual funds to moderate flows into small and midcap funds and rebalance their portfolios. SEBI Chief Madhabi Puri Buch said, “We see signs of manipulation in the SME segment.” Buch is worried about increasing fraudulent activities that inflate stock prices and, in some cases, even subscriptions into initial public offers. For the past year, SEBI has been tightening the screws over the equity markets, dousing potential fires that could, if unchecked, level even big portfolios.While the two regulators have separately done their jobs, together too the RBI and SEBI have worked on bringing to light misconduct and misdemeanours in markets. The RBI has cracked down on several lenders, levying monetary penalties and at times even restricting business operations. Investment banking group JM Financial bore the brunt of both the regulators. The RBI banned JM Financial Products, a non-bank lending firm of the group, from lending against shares and bonds, including for the purpose of IPO bidding. SEBI, on its part, barred the company from acting as a lead manager of any public issue of debt securities.
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 04:02 PM IST with headline  What does 12-year-low core inflation say about India's growth story? is: 
 Core inflation is seen as a proxy for demand in the economy as it excludes the volatile price changes seen in food and fuel items and thus provides a better understanding of underlying inflation developments. As was expected, India's headline retail inflation rate remained steady in February, coming in at 5.09 percent as against 5.10 percent the previous month. However, core inflation – inflation excluding food items and fuel – continued its downward trend and fell to 3.3 percent, as per Moneycontrol calculations. This, economists say, is the lowest core inflation has been since January 2012.Of course, ways to measure core inflation can differ. In essence, core inflation strips out the volatile food and fuel items and focuses on the price changes of other items. Some economists like to go one step further and remove certain fuel and metal items from the 'miscellaneous' category of the Consumer Price Index (CPI) that includes household goods and services, transport and communication, and health and education related items, among others.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: Headline inflation should soon come down to core, says Ashima GoyalORGANISATIONFEB CORE CPI INFLATION ESTIMATEMotilal Oswal Financial Services3.3%Nomura3.3%QuantEco Research3.3%ICICI Securities3.34%CareEdge3.34%India Ratings and Research3.34%Deutsche Bank3.37%State Bank of India3.37%Barclays3.38%Emkay Global Financial Services3.39%IDFC First Bank3.4%CRISIL3.4%Acuité Ratings & Research3.5%ICRA3.5%Anand Rathi Share and Stock Brokers3.7%And while the differing approaches can give slightly different core inflation numbers, the trend remains the same. But there is no single interpretation of the continuous decline in core inflation."Weak core inflation at a time of strong growth is a conundrum," economists Paras Jasrai and Sunil Kumar Sinha of India Ratings and Research noted.Growth has indeed been strong. The statistics ministry surprised everyone when it said on February 29 that India's GDP growth in the last quarter of 2023 was a blockbuster 8.4 percent, significantly higher than all forecasts.
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 02:42 PM IST with headline  No plans to sell SUUTI stake in ITC, says DIPAM Secy is: 
 No plans to sell SUUTI stake in ITC, says DIPAM Secy The government has no plans to sell its part stake in ITC, held through SUUTI, amid BAT paring its stake through a block deal in the Kolkata-based FMCG player, a top official said on Wednesday.As on December 31, 2023, Specified Undertaking of Unit Trust of India (SUUTI) held around 7.82 per cent stake in the diversified conglomerate ITC.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"There is no such plan at the moment," Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey told PTI.SUUTI last pared a stake in ITC in February 2017, when two per cent equity was sold at a price of Rs 291.95 per share via block deal.In a block deal, two parties make a transaction involving shares worth at least Rs 5 crore. Block deal transactions are conducted in a separate trading window.
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 04:01 PM IST with headline  Losing stocks outnumber gainers 9:1, experts say mood turning bearish is: 
 So far in March, Sensex and Nifty rose by 0.6% and 0.4%, while BSE MidCap and SmallCap declined by 3.5% and 9.3%. The advance-decline ratio, a comparison of how many stocks are rising to the number of stocks that are falling, has stayed below 0.4 for the third consecutive day.A ratio of one means that for every stock that is rising, one stock is declining. A ratio of less than one means more shares are declining than those that are gaining.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAnalysts said this indicates that the mood is increasingly becoming bearish. So far on March 13, on the BSE, out of 3,914 stocks, 394 rose, 3,461 fell, and 59 remained unchanged. Today's ratio stands at 0.13, compared to 0.28 on March 12 and 0.39 on March 11. In March, only four days recorded a ratio above 1, with the remaining days trading below 1. So far in March, it has hit 0.7, the lowest level since March 2020 compared to 0.84 in February.Analysts said the recent correction in mid-, small- and micro-cap stocks amid concerns over high valuations and the recent regulatory actions are making potential buyers wary. The small- and micro-cap stocks have been witnessing the most selling pressure.The starting point for the selloff was SEBI’s directive to AMFI, warning about a froth in small- and mid-cap stocks and calling for moderation in small- and mid-cap schemes. But the stocks had begun to weaken even before that development.
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 04:02 PM IST with headline  Coal Ministry will fulfill 874 mn tonnes coal requirement for power sector in FY25: Prahlad Joshi is: 
 Coal Ministry will fulfill 874 mn tonnes coal requirement for power sector in FY25: Prahlad Joshi The coal ministry is geared up to fulfill the 874 million tonnes coal demand for the power sector in financial year 2024-25, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi said on Wednesday.For the financial year ending March 31, the Power Ministry had placed a requirement of 821 million tonnes, Joshi told PTI on the sidelines of the release of 'PM Gati Shakti National Master Plan in Coal Sector' booklet.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTheir (power ministry's) demand has been met. They had asked for 821 million tonnes and it has been supplied, the Minister said."For FY25, the power ministry has asked for 874 million tonnes of coal. We will fulfill this requirement also. We are going to cross 1 billion tonne coal production by this March," he said.The share of imported coal for blending purposes has gone down this fiscal compared to last financial year, Joshi said.
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 01:40 PM IST with headline  Vegetable oil imports down 13% in February to 9.75 lakh tonne: SEA is: 
 Vegetable oil imports down 13% in February to 9.75 lakh tonne: SEA India's vegetable oils import fell 13 per cent year-on-year in February to nearly 9.75 lakh tonne, according to industry data.In a statement on Wednesday, Solvent Extractors' Association of India (SEA) said the import of vegetable oils (comprising edible oils and non-edible oils) during February stood at 9,74,85 tonne as compared to 11,14,481 tonne in the year-ago period.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOut of the total imports, the edible oil shipments fell to 9,67,852 tonne last month from 10,98,475 tonne in February 2023.Non-edible oils imports too fell to 7,000 tonne from 16,006 tonne in the year-ago period.During November 2023-February 2024 period, the overall import of vegetable oils declined 21 per cent to 46,47,963 tonne from 58,87,900 tonne in the corresponding period of the previous oil year.
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 01:18 PM IST with headline  Strategic policy reforms that can propel the Indian space sector to a faster growth trajectory is: 
 The upstream segment includes all activities such as manufacturing, launching and operation of space assets. By Dhwani Gada and Parth SanganiIndia created history in space technology with the successful landing of Chandrayaan-3 on the moon, also triggering a significant evolution and becoming a global powerhouse. Beyond these triumphs lies a new space era driven by the private sector and startups and supplemented by government initiatives.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe ambitious vision of India reaching a $44 billion space sector leader by 2033 is now on the horizon propelling India into further strides in space exploration. To fully unlock this potential, strategic policy reforms for the private sector are paramount, presenting both challenges and thrilling prospects on the path forward.Broadly the space value chain is categorised into(a) upstream segment
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 01:41 PM IST with headline  Global trade growth likely to accelerate in 2024: Report is: 
 Global trade growth likely to accelerate in 2024: Report Globalisation reached a record high in 2022 and stayed nearly as high in 2023, despite various global shocks over the past decade, such as the Covid-19 pandemic, wars in Ukraine and Gaza, and the US-China trade conflict, a report said on Wednesday.The "New DHL Global Connectedness Report 2024" by DHL and New York University's Stern School of Business, released here, also said that the share of global output traded internationally was back to a record high level in 2022.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAfter a slowdown in 2023, trade growth is forecast to accelerate in 2024, it said. Trade growth played a crucial role in boosting connectedness.The report tracks how flows of trade, capital, information, and people move around the world and measure the globalisation of 181 countries and territories.The globalisation of information flows has notably surged over the past two decades, even though the latest data show a slowdown in their growth, partly due to less research collaboration between the US and China.
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 12:19 PM IST with headline  Will Britain let China browbeat its universities? is: 
 Responding to complaints by promptly removing the source of irritation makes the commitment to academic freedom look hollow. (Source: Getty Images Europe/Bloomberg) In 2021, the Russell Group of 24 leading British universities published an unequivocal statement of its commitment to protecting academic freedom. The institutions would “always champion the importance of free speech,” the group’s chief executive officer wrote, noting that diverse views and disagreement were fundamental to advancing knowledge. The group might want to have a word with its biggest member. At University College London, terms and conditions appear to apply.A UCL lecturer was barred from teaching a research module she created and had been delivering for a decade after Chinese students complained that one of the exercises it contained was “provocative,” according to a thread she posted on Elon Musk’s X, following a report in the Telegraph newspaper. Michelle Shipworth, an associate professor of energy and social sciences, was told she’d been accused of bias, which was damaging the reputation of her employer and its prospects of attracting students from China.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIt’s no great surprise to see principle come out the loser in a perceived clash between academic ideals and commercial pragmatism. UCL, based in central London, has more Chinese students than any other Russell Group university: 10,785 in the 2021-22 academic year, according to data from the Higher Education Statistics Agency. That also represented the biggest share of enrollment among the universities: 23 percent of UCL’s total intake of more than 46,000 students. Considering that overseas students in the UK pay on average 2.4 times as much in tuition fees as their domestic counterparts, they provide a critical revenue stream that any administrator would be loath to jeopardise.Are these two imperatives really in conflict, though? The right not to be provoked or offended isn’t part of the deal in British education, in theory at least, and this is after all what all overseas students are paying for. “Universities must be places where students and staff can openly and rigorously question current orthodoxies and beliefs, and explore new areas of intellectual enquiry, regardless of whether this involves or leads to the expression of views and opinions that may be uncomfortable, offensive or upsetting,” the Office for Students, the UK’s independent higher education regulator, says on its web site.That spirit of fearless inquiry dates back to the medieval era, when the first European universities were established and granted control over their own affairs by papal edicts and royal charters. And before that, to ancient Greece and the Socratic method, which aims to foster critical-thinking skills via a dialogue in which the teacher poses challenging questions to the student.
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 12:13 PM IST with headline  Exclusive | Company law panel may call for more teeth against directors amid alleged irregularities at Byju's, others is: 
 The Committee is considering stronger regulations for unlisted companies The Company Law Committee (CLC), which was set up by the ministry of corporate affairs to review implementation of the Companies Act, 2013, is likely to make several recommendations to strengthen the law, a person aware of the development told Moneycontrol.Specifically, the panel may call for the law to be given more teeth to pin corporate governance lapses on directors. It may also seek to have personal guarantees defined, and bat for uniformity in litigation under various provisions.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“The committee has had 2-3 meetings in this regard so far,” said the person cited above.The panel is likely to finalise its recommendations over the next three months and submit them to the new government after elections, sources said.Directors are trustees of the money and property of a company; as defined by the Companies Act, they have fiduciary duties, are responsible for strategic decisions, corporate governance and legal compliance, and are accountable to shareholders. The directors are also liable to disclose any conflicts of interest they may have in transactions involving the company.
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 01:40 PM IST with headline  Chart of the Day | Quick commerce’s strengthening hold is a risk for kiranas as market growth is also slowing is: 
 The fall in kirana growth indicates the reasons may lie elsewhere. In 2023, the first three quarters saw India’s kirana trade grow at relatively healthy rates, partly aided by a low base effect. In 2022 the kirana channel had seen volume growth decline in all four quarters. But some recent strain has become visible, and we had as well.NielsenIQ data for the December 2023 quarter confirms a slippage in kirana growth, as it fell to 5.3 percent from 7.5 percen
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 09:19 AM IST with headline  India allows RBI to import gold without paying import levies is: 
 India allows RBI to import gold without paying import levies India has allowed its central bank to import gold without paying import levies, the government said in a notification issued late on Tuesday.Gold importers from the world's second biggest gold consumer need to pay basic customs duty and Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess (AIDC).Story continues below AdvertisementAs of September 2023, the Reserve Bank of India held 800.79 metric tonnes of gold, including gold deposits of 39.89 tonnes.Of that, 388.06 tonnes is held overseas and 372.84 tonnes is held domestically, according to the RBI's latest reserve management report
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 09:39 AM IST with headline  MC Pro Inside Edge: Mugul flies high with Indigo; bears take aim at Swan, DB Realty QIP, peers eye Desi Soros is: 
 With sentiment changing for the worse, QIP has once again become a buyer’s market Flying highThe block deal in InterGlobe Aviation appears to lifted the spirits of the Midcap Mugul and his followers. Besides Morgan Stanley, a few fund houses too are said to have nibbled at the stock during Monday’s bulk deal, But a good deal of heavy lifting is said to have been done by the Mugul & Co. With the supply overhang addressed for the time being, bulls are betting that they will be able to maintain altitud
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 08:51 AM IST with headline  Can India replicate the EFTA model in future trade deals? is: 
 Representative image HighlightsIndia signs trade agreement with the four-nation EFTAAs part of the deal, companies of EFTA states will invest $100 billion in India over 15 yearsIndia can withdraw tariff concession if EFTA fails to meet investment commitmentSuch a rider is included for the first time in any free trade dealThe TEPA is an example of how trade agreements could be executed in the futureIndia’s pending FTA list got shorter last Sunday when it signed a Trade and Economi
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 09:59 AM IST with headline  The strong case for a diversified portfolio allocation in FY25 is: 
 There is a favourable case to add duration to investor portfolios. In the coming months, the stock market’s focus on the upcoming national elections is set to intensify. In fact, major countries including India, the US, UK, Brazil and Russia are set to go to the polls. Besides elections, the timing of the US Federal Reserve interest rate cuts and any geopolitical uncertainty will weigh on markets. In this backdrop, the big question for investors is how to approach the markets and their investments. Maybe it is tim
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 08:17 AM IST with headline  A tale of two inflations is: 
 The rural food retail inflation index is up by almost a fifth in the last three years HighlightsRetail inflation in India continued to be higher than targetIn India, food inflation is the culprit while core inflation is fallingInflation expectations in India have remained persistently highIn the US, February inflation remains stubbornly highInflation expectations have edged up in the USThe US markets shrugged off the inflation printThe markets believe Powell will not do anything to spoil the partyRetail inflation in India came in at 5.09 percent for February 2024, almost unchanged from January’s 5.1 percent
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 08:09 AM IST with headline  IIP numbers paint a very different picture from upbeat GDP data is: 
 - The key questions that the industrial production data were supposed to answer were: has the production of consumer goods improved and has capital goods production gone up? The answers to these questions would enable us to gauge the state of consumer demand in the country as well as whether capex, especially corporate capex, is picking up, as widely hoped.Well, the index of industrial production for January 2024 was u
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 10:28 AM IST with headline  February inflation would be at 4.7% if CPI was calculated using 2022-23 consumer survey: SBI is: 
 Data released by the statistics ministry on March 12 showed India’s headline retail inflation stood at 5.09 percent in February. India's headline retail inflation rate would have been 40 basis points lower in February if the Consumer Price Index (CPI) measure was constructed using the results of the latest Consumer Expenditure Survey (CES)."Recent release of CES may have an impact on food CPI and subsequently on overall CPI as the weights of major food items has (been) revised from 47.8 percent in 2011-12 to 42.8 percent in 2022-23 at all India level," Soumya Kanti Ghosh, State Bank of India's Group Chief Economic Adviser, said in a report on March 12.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: Consumer Expenditure Survey offers a look into the next CPI inflation series"Since CPI is the basis for the Reserve Bank of India's monetary policy decisions it should be appropriately calculated. By substituting existing weights with new weights, the new headline CPI is lower than the old headline CPI in the recent period by around 40 basis points," Ghosh added.Data released by the statistics ministry on March 12 showed CPI inflation stood at 5.09 percent in February, largely unchanged from 5.10 percent in January. However, inflation remained steady even as food inflation rose to 8.66 percent from 8.30 percent.
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 06:17 AM IST with headline  Commodity Trade: Gold Mini has formed an evening star candlestick pattern is: 
 Commodity trad
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 06:17 AM IST with headline  Options Trade | A non-directional options strategy setup in Infosys is: 
 infosy
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 06:17 AM IST with headline  Cash Trade: Torrent Power shows strength in a weak market is: 
 Torrent Powe
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 02:21 AM IST with headline  Inflation and IIP data meet expectations, but concerns remain is: 
 The Consumer Price Index and Index of Industrial Production are two of the most important high-frequency indicators of the state of the Indian economy. If it is becoming increasingly difficult to forecast India's quarterly and annual GDP growth rates, at least high-frequency monthly data are more predictable.Data released by the statistics ministry on March 12 showed the headline retail inflation rate was stable at 5.09 percent in February compared to 5.10 percent in January. Economists surveyed by Moneycontrol had said Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation would come in at 5.1 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: Explained – 'Discrepancies' in GDP data and how they affect headline growth rateSimilarly, industrial growth as measured by the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) decelerated to 3.8 percent in January, only slightly lower than the consensus view of 4.2 percent.But despite being along expected lines, both the monthly economic indicators contain some cause for concern.
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 08:10 PM IST with headline  Oil prices steady as OPEC retains demand forecasts is: 
 Oil prices steady as OPEC retains demand forecasts Oil prices were little changed on Tuesday as OPEC stuck by its forecast for demand growth this year and next, amid persistent tensions in the Middle East and beyond.Brent futures for May delivery were up 24 cents at $82.45 a barrel by 1420 GMT. The April U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude contract rose 31 cents at $78.24.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn Tuesday, OPEC stuck to its forecast for relatively strong growth in global oil demand in 2024 and 2025, and further raised its economic growth forecast for this year saying there was more room for improvement.The monthly report from the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) is expected later on Tuesday, while the International Energy Agency (IEA), which advises industrialised nations, is anticipated to put out its estimates on Thursday."While we believe the estimates will be largely unchanged, any upside surprise will ease demand concerns," ANZ analysts said.
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 07:58 PM IST with headline  US dollar gains after stronger-than-expected inflation data is: 
 US dollar gains after stronger-than-expected inflation data The U.S. dollar rose in choppy trading on Tuesday, after data showed hotter-than-expected inflation last month for the world's largest economy, slightly paring back expectations of an interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve at its June policy meeting.It was a volatile session, with the U.S. dollar initially jumping after the data, then falling and eventually rising after the market digested the report. The dollar index was last up 0.3% at 103.06.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Labor Department report showed that the Consumer Price Index (CPI) rose 0.4% in February, in line with the forecast for a 0.4% increase. On a year-on-year basis, the CPI gained 3.2%, compared with the estimated 3.1% rise.Excluding volatile food and energy components, the core figure rose 0.4% month-on-month in February, compared with an estimated 0.3% rise. Annually, it gained 3.8%, compared with the forecast of a 3.7% increase."The inflation situation is going to likely drag out for several more months, thus possibly keeping the first Fed rate cut still on the sidelines for a bit longer than expected," said Russell Price, chief economist at Ameriprise Financial Services in Troy, Michigan.
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 07:09 PM IST with headline  Nasdaq leads Wall St higher as rate-sensitive growth stocks rally post US CPI data is: 
 Nasdaq leads Wall St higher as rate-sensitive growth stocks rally post US CPI data The tech-heavy Nasdaq climbed on Tuesday, led by gains in rate-sensitive growth and chip stocks, as traders held on to bets that the FederalReserve will cut rates in the coming months following inflation data.Story continues below AdvertisementThe Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 113.66 points, or 0.29%, at the open to 38,883.32.The S&P 500 opened higher by 16.36 points, or 0.32%, at 5,134.30, while the Nasdaq Composite gained 97.71 points, or 0.61%, to 16,116.98 at the opening bell
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 07:26 PM IST with headline  US consumer inflation up unexpectedly in February is: 
 US consumer inflation up unexpectedly in February Underlying US inflation topped forecasts for a second month in February as prices jumped for used cars, air travel and clothes, reinforcing the Federal Reserve’s cautious approach to cutting interest rates.The so-called core consumer price index, which excludes food and energy costs, increased 0.4% from January, according to government data out Tuesday. From a year ago, it advanced 3.8%.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEconomists see the core gauge as a better indicator of underlying inflation than the overall CPI. That measure climbed 0.4% from January and 3.2% from a year ago, boosted by gasoline prices, Bureau of Labor Statistics figures showed. BloombergAfter a brisk January reading, the report adds to evidence that inflation is proving stubborn, which is keeping central bankers wary of easing policy too soon. Chair Jerome Powell suggested last week that he and his colleagues are getting close to the level of confidence they need to start lowering rates, but some officials have expressed they’d like to see a broader pullback in prices first.
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 02:22 AM IST with headline  India’s January IIP growth at 3.8% versus 4.2% in December is: 
 The Index of Industrial Production, or IIP, is a key indicator of India’s monthly activity levels. Growth in India's industrial output decelerated to 3.8 percent in January, according to data released by the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation on March 12.At 3.8 percent, the latest industrial growth figure as per the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) is unchanged from the December 2023 figure of 3.8 percent. That number was on March 12 revised higher to 4.2 percent by the statistics ministry. This was to be expected after the commerce ministry revised upwards core sector growth for December to 4.9 percent from 3.8 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe eight core industries – coal, crude oil, natural gas, refinery products, fertilisers, steel, cement, and electricity – make up around 40 percent of the IIP. As such, it is seen as a lead indicator of industrial growth data.Meanwhile, for April 2023-January 2024, industrial growth stood at 5.9 percent as against 5.5 percent in April 2022-January 2023.
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 02:23 AM IST with headline  India's February CPI inflation at 5.09%, core inflation drops further to 3.3% is: 
 As per the RBI’s latest forecast, headline retail inflation is seen averaging 5.0 percent in the first quarter of 2024. India's headline retail inflation rate was largely unchanged at 5.09 percent in February, according to data released by the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation on March 12.The Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation print in January was 5.10 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: India Inc's inflation expectation settling around 4.3%, shows IIM surveyAt 5.09 percent, the latest headline retail inflation figure is as per expectations, with economists having predicted prices likely rose 5.1 percent year-on-year according to a Moneycontrol survey.
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 04:54 PM IST with headline  Bank of Japan leaning toward exiting negative rates in March: Sources is: 
 Bank of Japan leaning toward exiting negative rates in March: Sources A growing number of Bank of Japan policymakers are warming to the idea of ending negative interest rates this month on expectations of hefty pay hikes in this year's annual wage negotiations, four sources familiar with its thinking said.Upon ending negative rates, the central bank is also likely to overhaul its massive stimulus programme that consists of a bond yield control and purchases of riskier assets, they said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBut an imminent shift is a close call as there is no consensus within the nine-member board on whether to pull the trigger at its upcoming March 18-19 meeting, or hold off at least until the subsequent meeting on April 25-26, they say.Many BOJ policymakers are closely watching the outcome of big firms' annual wage negotiations with unions on March 13, and the first survey results to be released by labour umbrella Rengo on March 15, to determine how soon to phase out their massive stimulus.Significant pay hikes will likely heighten the chance of action in March, as the offers by big firms usually set the tone for those by smaller firms nationwide, the sources said on condition of anonymity due to the sensitivity of the matter.
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 04:56 PM IST with headline  Higher CCI exemption may encourage companies to pursue M&A route for growth: Experts is: 
 The increased asset and revenue thresholds described above are applicable for a period of 2 years The government’s decision to raise the assets and revenue threshold for smaller business deals exempted from Competition Commission Of India (CCI) approval emphasises a strategic effort to encourage M&A activities while balancing regulatory oversight, experts said. With this, companies may be more inclined to pursue strategic acquisitions or mergers as part of their growth strategies.The government on March 8 announced that it would raise the threshold for combination filing i.e. smaller business deals, including mergers and acquisitions, to happen without the prior approval of the Competition Commission Of India (CCI).Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“The increased thresholds mean that smaller deals can happen without needing approval from the CCI. Companies may be more inclined to pursue strategic acquisitions or mergers as part of their growth strategies. This adjustment is anticipated to streamline the regulatory process for smaller scale acquisitions and mergers, making them more accessible and feasible for businesses operating within these parameters,” Rachit Sharma, Deputy General Manager, Taxmann told Moneycontrol.Combinations involving asset values up to Rs 450 crore and turnovers of Rs 1,250 crore are now exempted from seeking prior approval of CCI. There is a substantial increase from the previous thresholds of Rs 350 crore for assets and Rs 1,000 crore for turnover."This is a welcome move as stakeholders in the Indian M&A ecosystem have been looking forward to revised target exemption thresholds for a long time now. The increased thresholds will increase the number of M&A transactions exempted from a CCI notification requirement. The revised thresholds also pave the way for the deal value thresholds, which could see the light of the day soon,” Aparna Mehra, Partner, Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co., told Moneycontrol.
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 03:56 PM IST with headline  Rupee closes flat ahead of crucial US inflation print is: 
 Rupee closes flat ahead of crucial US inflation print The Indian rupee ended little changed after a rangebound Tuesday, ahead of crucial U.S. consumer inflation data that will help investors gauge the timing of interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve.The rupee closed at 82.7675 against 82.7575 in the previous session. It traded in a narrow 82.7250 to 82.7725 band for the session.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Indian currency has been a beneficiary of persistent foreign inflows in the country's debt and equity markets but dollar purchases from importers and possible intervention by the central bank have limited gains, traders said."Technically, the rupee is expected to consolidate between 82.52 to 83.05 with a positive bias," Dilip Parmar, a foreign exchange research analyst at HDFC Securities, said.While foreign inflows are expected to remain favourable for rupee bulls, any risk-averse sentiment and likely dollar purchases by the central bank will limit the rupee's rise, he said.
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 07:38 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | India's aviation market: The winner takes it all is: 
 airlines Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAviation is an alluring business. Many enter it, but few make money. And the ones who succeed rake in the moolah. Consider the latest developments in the industry. A stake sale in InterGlobe Aviation fetched its co-founder more money than the entire market value of SpiceJet.Of course, the sizes of both companies vary hugely. Even then, investors should note the valuation gap. IndiGo commands a higher valuation reflecting its consistent track record and superior operating metrics.SpiceJet, despite ownership changes, faced financial pressures for a long time. Shares of the company plunged in Tuesday’s trade on reports that two senior executives are exiting the company.
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 01:18 PM IST with headline  Stock markets undergo ‘risk reset’ as indices notch new records is: 
 - Jennifer Hughes in New York and George Steer in LondonGrowing optimism about the world economy and improved corporate earnings is driving stock markets to record highs, prompting analysts to forecast further gains in what some describe as a “risk reset”.Wall Street’s S&P 500, the tech-dominated Nasdaq Composite, Japan’s Nikkei 225, Germany’s Dax and France’s CAC 40, among other indices, have all hit their highest-ever levels in recent weeks, amid hopes that central banks have succeeded in taming inflatio
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 01:39 PM IST with headline  India's exports will close fiscal at same level as last year despite uncertainties: Piyush Goyal is: 
 India's exports will close fiscal at same level as last year despite uncertainties: Piyush Goyal Commerce and Industry minister Piyush Goyal has exuded confidence that during this fiscal, the country's goods and services export numbers will be at the same level; as it was last year despite slowdown and uncertainties in the global trade.He also said that the government measures such production-linked incentives schemes and focus on high-quality goods and services would help in containing the country's trade deficit.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSo our trade deficit will be significantly lower than last year."I am happy to share with you that we close the current year in March at the same level as last year. We have a little bit of an adjustment between goods and services, but collectively we will be at the same level as last year, which will be a very, very significant achievement given that most developing countries and less developed countries are seeing a fall in their international trade," Goyal told PTI in an interview.Cumulatively, the country's merchandise exports in April-January 2023-24 contracted by 4.89 per cent to USD 353.92 billion. The estimated value of services exports during the ten-month period stood at USD 84.45 billion.
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 02:57 PM IST with headline  The Macro Puzzle: What explains the big divergence between GDP and GVA is: 
 The difference between GDP and GVA is based on the growth rated in taxes and subsidies. The National Statistics Office (NSO) at the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation recently released a press note on the GDP (Gross Domestic Product) estimates for third quarter (Q3) 2023-24 and also the second advance estimates for the entire year 2023-24.The NSO noted that the GDP growth for Q3 2023-24 was expected at 8.4 percent and for the entire 2023-24 at 7.6 percent. In the first advance estimates in January 2024, NSO had estimated annual GDP growth for 2023-24 at 7.3 percent. The data completely surprised markets which had expected GDP growth for Q3 2023-24 at 6.5 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn a closer look at the data, analysts found that there was a large gap between GDP and GVA (Gross Value Added). While GVA is expected to grow at 6.5 percent in Q3 2023-24, the GDP is expected to grow at 8.4 percent. The wide variation puzzled markets and has led to a lot of discussions in the financial media.We need to understand some basics to understand the puzzle.The statistical authorities calculate GDP via three methods: Production/Sectoral, Expenditure, and Income. For the context of this article, we focus on the production approach.
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 12:23 PM IST with headline  What ‘Barbie’ can teach working-class men is: 
 So how can men move forward when the traditional roles and economic pathways no longer hold the same promise? Economists spend a lot of time talking about jobs. Work is not only how people support themselves financially, it can also be the way in which they contribute to society, create unique identities and find meaning in the world. When work disappears or shifts, people can feel as unmoored and confused as Ken in Greta Gerwig’s Barbie, who had one last moment in the spotlight at last night’s Academy Awards, when Ryan Gosling performed the Oscar-nominated song “I’m Just Ken.”Gosling lost — to his fellow Barbie nominee Billie Eilish — just as Ken is emotionally lost in Barbieland. Ken’s identity crisis, born from the lack of a clearly defined purpose, mirrors a narrative that has been unfolding for American working-class men for decades. The economy has shifted beneath their feet, leaving many like Ken: struggling with a mix of anger, hurt and confusion.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn the mid-1960s, roughly a third of US jobs involved manufacturing and other goods-producing sectors. Men held roughly 80 percent of those jobs. In the decades since, the number of jobs in the goods-producing sector has been largely stable. At the same time, the service sector has exploded, adding about 100 million jobs.Men still hold 77 percent of jobs in the goods-producing sector. Unfortunately, the US and global economy have moved on — and the shift has happened without the creation of a new narrative for men. So working-class men like Ken are stumbling around a socioeconomic landscape seeking a foothold in a society that seems to have no role for them, largely eschewing the new working-class job opportunities in the service sector.The result is that job growth has disproportionately gone to women, 92% of whom work in services. But unlike in Barbieland, in the real world the division is not just between men and women, but between college-educated and working-class men. Men with college and advanced degrees have high labor force participation rates, high marriage rates and high earnings.These elite men have thrived in an economy that evolved to prioritise intellectual prowess.
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 12:24 PM IST with headline  Solar success is a curse for China’s manufacturers is: 
 China’s glut of solar panels. (Source: Bloomberg) Ever since photovoltaic cells started popping up on pocket calculators and building roofs a few decades ago, solar power has faced a key drawback: It’s a nice technology, but there’s simply not enough of it to make a difference. Right now, it’s facing the opposite difficulty.The tidal wave of investment panels has swelled to the point that it is threatening to overwhelm the global industry. Amid the onslaught of cheap Chinese-made modules, overseas manufacturers have either walled themselves off behind tariff barriers (as in India and the US) or resigned themselves to extinction, as in Europe. Now, even the Chinese companies blamed for the current glut are panicking.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBeijing should introduce bidding rules to prevent low-quality, below-cost products being put onto the market, Zhong Baoshen, chairman of the biggest panel maker, Longi Green Energy Technology Co, said last week. The slump in prices is so drastic that there is now “no profit across the entire supply chain,” Gao Jifan, Zhong’s counterpart at third-placed Trina Solar Co, told a BloombergNEF summit last November.On the face of it, this sounds like a great problem to have. From the perspective of manufacturing, the solar bit of the path to net zero is already pretty much solved. The world will need to be installing about 650 gigawatts of solar a year in 2030 to avoid catastrophic climate change, according to the International Energy Agency. But major manufacturers have already built about 783GW of annual production capacity and we might hit the IEA’s 2030 installation target this year, according to BloombergNEF.The hitch in all this is that it’s a lot harder to connect a solar panel than it is to make one. Utilities and even households face regulatory, political and logistical roadblocks joining the grid. As a result, BloombergNEF expects more than half of manufacturing capacity to go unused this year and next. Module costs have already fallen by more than half over the past two years. The current excess suggests further price declines are to come, which is great news for consumers, but terrible for manufacturers.
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 12:30 PM IST with headline  Vanke, the developer that will break China’s back if allowed to default is: 
 A developer worth saving. (Source: Bloomberg) A third year into a property downturn, China is still seeking market-oriented solutions. Insolvent developers must be prepared for bankruptcy, the housing ministry warned at the weekend. As for projects with decent prospects but under temporary credit stress, state-owned banks have earmarked billions of dollars in loans to ensure their completion.Unusual times call for extraordinary measures. As China Vanke Co, one of the nation’s largest developers, faces a liquidity crunch, it is clear that market forces have turned toxic and a state-engineered bailout is in order. Moody’s Ratings cut the well-regarded Vanke to junk on Monday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe company’s biggest hurdle is the lack of clarity on future sales. Thanks to managerial prudence, it fared fairly well in 2023 next to peers such as Country Garden Holdings Co. Contracted sales fell by only 10 percent to 376 billion yuan ($52.4 billion). However, the overall market may be turning for the worse this year. A recent survey by China Index Academy indicates that less than 20 percent of respondents plan to buy a home in the next six months, versus close to 30 percent a year ago. Moody’s estimates that Vanke’s contracted sales declined around 40 percent to 34.5 billion yuan in January and February, a sharp deterioration from a year ago.Property development is a scale business. Vanke’s operating margin has tumbled from 29 percent at its 2019 peak to 8.4 percent in the September quarter, according to the latest data available. In the first nine months of 2023, it notched only 31 billion yuan in operating profit, a 23 percent drop from a year earlier.The developer’s volatile operating conditions perhaps explain why even state-owned financial institutions are apprehensive. Vanke is facing resistance from China’s two state-owned banks on a new HK$4.5 billion ($575 million) offshore syndicated loan. In a rare intervention, China’s cabinet has asked large lenders to step up their support, Reuters reported.
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 06:52 AM IST with headline  Cash Market: NLC India Limited shows strength in a weak market is: 
 NLC Indi
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 06:44 AM IST with headline  India finally embraces trade deals as companies look past China is: 
 India finally embraces trade deals as companies look past China Gautam Nair is preparing to ramp up production at his clothing factory in Gurugram, betting on a surge of orders from brands like Marks & Spencer and Next as India pursues more free trade pacts with the rest of the world.Within three years, he expects Matrix Clothing Pvt Ltd.’s exports to the European Union and the UK to more than double from current levels. “The industry is very excited,” Nair, who co-founded the company, said by phone.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s government is taking advantage of India’s growing appeal as the world’s fastest-growing major economy and an alternative to China for global supply chains to clinch a number of free trade pacts. India expects its deals with countries from the UK to Australia will help boost its manufacturing and soak up the tens of millions of young people entering the workforce in the years ahead.The latest, and among the most ambitious, was a trade and investment pact signed with four European countries, including Switzerland and Norway, on March 10. It signaled India’s readiness to take on commitments in areas such as labor, environment and sustainability and gender — topics it had shied away from in the past. It was also the first time India secured an investment commitment — of $100 billion over 15 years — in such a deal.India has now signed four FTAs in quick succession since 2021 after a gap of about nine years where no agreements were inked. The latest pact with the European bloc of countries, known as the European Free Trade Association, or EFTA, was hailed by Modi and comes just weeks before elections in which he’s seeking to extend his decade in power.
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 06:36 AM IST with headline  Cash Trade: Price action in SBI Life Insurance shows a breakout-pullback trend is: 
 SBI Life insuranc
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 06:35 AM IST with headline  Options Trade: A non-directional options strategy in JSW Steel is: 
 JSW stee
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 02:35 AM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Does the wisdom of crowds hold true in the IPO market? is: 
 The recent regulatory action against IPO financing brings the issue of oversubscription back into the spotlight. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdYou are in a new city, in a lane famous for its street food or ‘khau galli’ as Mumbaikars affectionately call these lanes that dot the city. Going to the first one you are drawn to or to one that looks less beaten-up are acceptable ways of choosing where to eat. But the most time-tested way, you will agree, is to go to the stall that’s most crowded. It may not be an efficient option as wait times will be longer, but when it comes to eating food that’s not only cooked with love but also by the sweat of the brow, there’s a certain safety in crowds that we crave.The lack of information in that market and on the adventure’s outcome on your health, as opposed to little fear in entering a reputed restaurant even when it’s empty, is what makes selling a complex job. Investment bankers know this all too well, just see how retail investors allow themselves to get manipulated in IPOs, when they see a crowd jostling for an allotment and don’t even bother to see what’s on the menu before putting their own application in.Why do retail investors do this when they can buy shares without the noise in the secondary market. This question is not new and neither are the answers, which can include novelty, listing gains, believing they are entering at the first floor and will hence earn higher returns and market euphoria.
 
The news published on the date March 11, 2024 10:27 PM IST with headline  Advertising: Don’t believe what you see in the age of AI ads is: 
 The Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) is carefully reviewing the use of generative AI. Advertising has always walked a thin line between embellishment and fabrication. In the new age of generative artificial intelligence, the latter is becoming easier. Making an online ad no longer requires careful staging of well-lit photographs because now they can be made and enhanced in fantastical ways. Consumers need to sharpen their wits as we move from unnaturally juicy hamburgers to depictions of people and food that aren’t physically plausible. Consider this bizarre pasta concoction that Instacart, the grocery-delivery service, used in its recent marketing:Instacart has now deleted the Frankenstein’s monster of food and recipes that don’t (or probably shouldn’t) exist, which included fare like “watermelon popsicles with chocolate chips,” which appears to have been conjured with new image-generation tools. But it wasn’t alone. Restaurants that sell food exclusively through delivery apps like DoorDash and Just Eat Takeaway.com NV’s Grubhub have also used images of unidentifiable breaded objects on their pasta, according to 404 Media.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTopping them all was a recent Willy Wonka exhibition in Glasgow, Scotland, whose AI-generated posters suggested ticket holders would stroll through a vivid world of ceiling-high lollipops and chocolate bars. They instead entered a bleak, grey warehouse scattered with some cheap props:Generative AI has allowed for even more sinister marketing, something Olga Loiek found out the hard way last December. The 20-year-old student was dabbling in the art of being a YouTube influencer when she discovered dozens of video advertisements of her hawking candy on Chinese social media sites. Loiek doesn’t speak the language, but her unauthorised likeness did.A raft of other influencers and celebrities have been cloned to endorseeverything from language apps to self-help courses, all without their permission. But it’s surprising that Loiek was picked to front a promotion too. She was relatively green on YouTube, having only posted eight videos for a month before the deepfaked videos started cropping up. Loiek thinks her cloners might have been drawn to her “Slavic” looks to appeal to Chinese consumers who support Russia. “This audience might like my avatar… and in the end they’re more likely to buy the product,” she says. The deepfakes, which she says were in the hundreds, found their way to the Chinese Instagram-style platform Xiaohongshu and video-sharing site BiliBili. Here’s an example:
 
The news published on the date March 11, 2024 02:03 PM IST with headline  Govt aims to reduce time taken for voluntary closure of companies to 3 months: Official is: 
 The processing of application for incorporating a company has now come down to only two days. In a bid to boost ease of doing business, the government aims to further bring down the time taken for voluntary closure of companies to three months, in line with international standards, a senior corporate affairs ministry official said.The time taken for voluntary closure has already come down to 110 days since the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) operationalised Centralised Processing for Accelerated Corporate Exit (C-PACE) on May 1, 2023.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“After C-PACE was set up the average time for voluntary closure of companies till February 15, 2024, is at 110 days i.e. less than four months. But it can be improved to three months in line with international standards. Ease of exit for companies was lagging till two years back. A voluntary closure application needs to be filed, which used to take 18 months on average for processing earlier,” the official told Moneycontrol.However, any further reduction in the timeline will be a challenge because after the promoters apply for voluntary closure, C-PACE gives at least 30 days for the company to respond to MCA. After the response on closure is received from the company, other processes are to be followed, he added.Ease of entry
 
The news published on the date March 11, 2024 01:28 PM IST with headline  Incomes of female self-help group members tripled during FY19-FY24, says SBI economist is: 
 The rural female Labour Force Participation rate has risen from 21.7 percent in 2017-18 (July-June) to 34.6 percent in 2022-23. Incomes of female members of India's self-help groups (SHGs) has more than tripled in the last five years, according to an analysis by Soumya Kanti Ghosh, State Bank of India's Group Chief Economic Adviser.Writing in a report on March 11, Ghosh said that the Covid pandemic had created opportunities for SHGs to "exponentially" increase their activities. Taking 2018-19 as the base year, Ghosh found that the income credited in female SHG members' bank accounts is set to increase from Rs 100 to Rs 307 as per the data available for the first nine months of 2023-24.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe biggest income increase was seen in female SHG members in urban areas, who this year are set to earn Rs 462 if their income in 2018-19 is assumed to be Rs 100. And while rural SHG members have seen a smaller increase in their incomes, Ghosh noted that "65 percent of rural SHG members have moved into Upper Quantiles (in) FY24 when compared to FY19".When these members are considered by age, the biggest income jump – 4.7 times – has been for those younger than 27 years.
 
The news published on the date March 11, 2024 02:17 PM IST with headline  How Indians will benefit from trade deal with European Free Trade Association  is: 
 EFTA consists of four nations – Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, and Switzerland. The India-European Free Trade Association (EFTA) trade deal, signed on March 10, will provide access to a number of products, including wine, Swiss chocolates and watches to Indians at a much lower price. Presently, India levies an import duty of 30 percent on chocolates and chocolate products and 20 percent on most variants of watches from Switzerland.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe EFTA consists of four nations – Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, and Switzerland.The effective duty on gold however remains untouched. Sectors such as dairy, soya, coal and sensitive agricultural products are kept in the exclusion list.The agreement also includes a $100 billion investment commitment from the EFTA countries in India in the next 15 years.
 
The news published on the date March 11, 2024 12:49 PM IST with headline  Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, number of other countries want to start rupee trade with India: Piyush Goyal is: 
 Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, number of other countries want to start rupee trade with India: Piyush Goyal Many developed and developing countries including Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, and nations of the Gulf region are keen to start trade in rupee with India as it would help cut transaction costs for businesses, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal has said.He expressed confidence that the development is going to be a "very game-changing" dimension to India's international trade.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Bangladesh, Sri Lanka are already talking to us and they want us to start this immediately. Other countries in the Gulf region are looking at that. I think it'll take some time for people to see the benefits. And then we'll have more and more developed countries and countries in the Far East also joining the bandwagon. Singapore is already on board to some extent," he said.The minister added that gradually countries are realising that undertaking trade in domestic currencies has several advantages.The minister said that it is now picking up traction and a lot of countries have come forward for this arrangement and are talking to India for that as they would also like to initiate direct transactions between their local currency and the rupee.
 
The news published on the date March 11, 2024 11:37 AM IST with headline  Chart of the Day: Asia's capex cycle gears for an upshift is: 
 Asia sees light at end of capex tunnel A key question for the government and investors is whether India’s private capex cycle will pick up or not. The answer to this question could determine whether its investment-led growth engine can keep chugging along and take along a clutch of related sectors. It’s not just India where the state of capex is a matter of attention but in Asia ex-Japan too, as a recent research note by Nomura’s Global Economics team points out.(image) In 2023, Asia’
 
The news published on the date March 11, 2024 11:32 AM IST with headline  An (almost) inverted yield curve is worrying China is: 
 An asset famine is driving risk-taking among China’s investors. (Source: Bloomberg) A curious thing is happening in China’s 29 trillion yuan ($4 trillion) government bond market.The yield differential between 30- and 10-year bonds has narrowed to as little as 11 basis points, sparking discussions over whether some parts of the sovereign curve will invert too, like it did in the US.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe yield curve may be getting flatter because of temporary market dynamics, not fundamentals. Much of the compression came from a strong rally in ultra-long notes. The 30-year is offering only 2.4 percent, an almost 1 percentage point drop from a year earlier. It’s even lower than the 2.5 percent one-year loan rate at which the People’s Bank of China lends to big financial institutions.Spooked by a January stock market rout, households pulled money out of equities and poured their savings into bond funds, whose solid returns turned out to be a bright spot. Meanwhile, a slowdown in new offeringsfrom higher-yielding local government financing vehicles is pushing asset managers to purchase more ultra-long sovereign notes in order to juice up their portfolio returns.Whatever the reason, an inverted yield curve has a bad rap. In normal times, notes with longer maturities offer higher rates to compensate lenders for tying up their money for an extended period. When those yields sink close to or below shorter ones, it’s an indication that investors are pessimistic about an economy’s growth prospects. In the US, an inversion was a reliable predictor of recessions, at least in the pre-pandemic days.
 
The news published on the date March 11, 2024 10:34 AM IST with headline  The ‘factors’ investors should be wary of is: 
 The study shows that 2023 was particularly tough for factor investing in the US Katie MartinExperience tells me that if you like having arguments with fund managers, or just generally annoying people, one really good way to do that is to initiate a conversation about passive investing.Asset managers tend to either love it, and bristle in irritation if you fail to love it as much as they do, or hate it because they pick stocks for a living and index tracking funds are eating their lunch, degrading their expertise and even
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 09:02 PM IST with headline  Headline CPI likely unchanged at 5.1 percent, industrial growth may edge up to a three-month high of 4.2 percent is: 
 Headline retail inflation and growth in industrial production are two of the most important high-frequency indicators of the state of the Indian economy. India's headline retail inflation rate in February is not likely to have changed from January's 5.1 percent, extending its stay within the Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) tolerance range of 2-6 percent to a sixth consecutive month, according to a Moneycontrol survey of 15 economists.Industrial growth, however, may have edged up to a three-month high of 4.2 percent in January, the survey showed.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: India Inc's inflation expectation settling around 4.3%, shows IIM surveyThe Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation will release retail inflation data for February and industrial production data for January at 5:30 pm on March 12.Inflation and Monetary Policy
 
The news published on the date March 11, 2024 01:22 PM IST with headline  Can ever evolving AI be effectively governed? is: 
 AI is a powerful tool, but it is far from perfect, and significant imperfections are expected to persist for the foreseeable future. Highlights:Artificial intelligence is marked in its fast paced evolution, autonomyAI’s intricacies make it difficult for policymakers to regulate effectivelyMeitY’s latest mandate for platforms to avoid compromising electoral systems will be challenging to implementAI systems are as good as their training, many LLMs have inbuilt bias.Policymakers must reckon the complexity of AI and boost their own capabilities Regulation is yet to fathom the multifaceted intricacy of artificial intelligence.Unlike traditional technologies, AI operates on algorithms that constantly evolve and adap
 
The news published on the date March 11, 2024 08:13 AM IST with headline  India’s policy response must be in lockstep with the AI march is: 
 Representative image HighlightsCabinet approves IndiaAI mission with a budget outlay of over Rs 10000 croreScheme guidelines and selection process are yet to be notifiedThe mission tries to address India’s shortcomings in computing hardwareSince AI involves disruptive technology, in-built safeguards are necessaryRe-skilling of labour force and a transparent regulatory mechanism are essentialAfter computers, the Internet, and mobile phones, it looks certain that artificial intelligence (AI) will be the most significant change agent in human lives.The reality is now dawning o
 
The news published on the date March 11, 2024 08:11 AM IST with headline  MC Pro Inside Edge | Honey tries Midas touch in Manappuram, options funders may face RBI-SEBI fire, algo jobbers lie doggo is: 
 With the RBI-SEBI combine coming down hard on NBFC funding sans due process, chatter in the market is that the next in their crosshairs could be funding to options traders The great gold rushManappuram Finance shares had a roller coaster ride last week. The main reason was RBI's curbs on IIFL’s gold loan business. The Street took it as a sign that other players in this segment, Manappuram for one, could be next in line. The stock took a knock, Interestingly, the stock managed to climb higher on Monday and Tuesday, thanks to efforts of the Honey-tongued investor. This former mutual fund manager-turned-HNI has become something o
 
The news published on the date March 10, 2024 05:41 PM IST with headline  India, EFTA ink trade deal with investment promise of $100 billion is: 
 India and EFTA nations signed a trade and investment agreement on March 10 India, on March 10, signed a Trade and Economic Partnership Agreement (TEPA) with the European Free Trade Association (EFTA), which includes Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, and Switzerland.According to the agreement, the EFTA countries have committed to facilitate through private companies an investment of $100 billion in India in the next 15 years.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"The investment promise from EFTA nations is a big opportunity for pharma, medical devices, food sectors," said India's Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal in New Delhi."It (India, EFTA) is a modern trade agreement -- it is fair, equitable and balanced. And a win, win for all the nations involved," Goyal added.The development comes as a win for the Indian government which was looking to push through a trade deal before the general elections slated to be held between April and May 2024. The EFTA members are not part of the European Union (EU). India is also negotiating Free Trade Agreements (FTAs) with the United Kingdom (UK), the EU, and the Gulf nation of Oman.
 
The news published on the date March 09, 2024 02:23 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Weekender: Saint Powell and the inflation dragon is: 
 If indeed the global economy continues to get better, that could provide a fresh tailwind for Indian equities. Dear Reader,The Bank for International Settlements (BIS) says in its quarterly report, published this week, that the gap between the market’s perception of interest rate cuts and the central bank projections has narrowed quite a bit. Claudio Borio, head of the Monetary and Economic Department at BIS, said at the press meet that it proved that the central banks’ views on inflation and rate cuts were closer to the mark.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlas, he hadn’t reckoned with Jerome Powell. At his testimony before Congress, he let the cat out of the bag when he said the Fed was ‘’not far’’ from the point of cutting interest rates. That was all the markets needed to celebrate, and he followed that up by saying, ‘’Interest rates right now are well into restrictive territory. They’re well above neutral.’’ The upshot: The S&P 500 lost no time in making a new high, spurring another rally in global equities. For good measure, to those who thought that US fiscal expansion was the reason for loose financial conditions, he said, ‘’We’re a long way from the point of fiscal policy overwhelming monetary policy.’’ The result was that the markets are now pricing in a higher probability of four or more rate cuts by the US Fed by the end of 2024.There are holdouts and kill-joys, of course, such as Torsten Slok, chief economist at Apollo Global Management, who said, in this interview, ‘’ the Fed probably turned dovish too quickly – and the consequence of turning dovish too quickly is that we’re now beginning to see the economy reaccelerate. For sure, the Fed will now begin to turn hawkish again over the next several months. In other words, we are not done fighting inflation.’’In fact, the JP Morgan Global Composite PMI showed that global economic growth accelerated to an eight-month high in February. The survey said, ‘’The rate of expansion was the fastest since last June, reflecting a further solid increase at service providers and the first gain in manufacturing new orders for 20 months. The trend in international trade volumes also moved closer to stabilising.” The title of the BIS quarterly report is ‘’Markets count on a smooth landing’’, but the data so far suggest the global economy is accelerating. Support for that view also comes from Chinese exports growing by a far better than expected 7.1 percent in January-February 2024, although that is in part due to increased exports to Russia.
 
The news published on the date March 08, 2024 11:04 PM IST with headline  Oil dips, to post weekly loss as markets weigh Chinese demand is: 
 Oil dips, to post weekly loss as markets weigh Chinese demand Oil prices dipped on Friday and were set to close lower for the week as markets remained wary of Chinese demand even as producer group OPEC+ extended output cuts, curbing supply.Brent crude futures were down a 87 cents or 1.04% cents, at $82.10 a barrel by 11:30 a.m. ET (1630 GMT). U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude futures were down 96 cents, or 1.2%, at $77.98.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBoth benchmarks were on track for weekly declines, with Brent down 0.6% and WTI 1.3%."While supplies have remained on the tighter side given OPEC's production cuts and Russian sanctions slowing exports, demand from China looks to be lagging and U.S. driving season demand has yet to kick in," said Dennis Kissler, senior vice president of trading at BOK Financial.U.S. job growth rose by 275,000 new nonfarm payrolls in February, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, beating expectations of a 200,000 rise according to a Reuters survey.
 
The news published on the date March 08, 2024 10:10 PM IST with headline  Stocks at record highs, treasury yields fall after US payrolls is: 
 Stocks at record highs, treasury yields fall after US payrolls Investors stretched record-breaking stock rallies on Friday and U.S. Treasury yields fell to their lowest in a month after not-too-hot, not-too-cold U.S. jobs data reinforced the conviction that the Federal Reserve will begin easing by midyear.The dollar continued to swoon against its currency rivals after the Labor Department said U.S. job growth accelerated in February, even as the unemployment rate jumped and wage gains moderated. The mixed report kept on the table an anticipated interest rate cut in June by the Fed.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"It really kind of solidifies what Chair (Jerome) Powell was saying this week, about the confidence he had in the potential to begin the rate cutting cycle this year. So the market should be pleased with this report," said Lindsey Bell, chief strategist with 248 Ventures in Charlotte, North Carolina."The economy's doing fine. It's slowing in an orderly manner, not too quickly. It's doing what the Fed needs."The S&P 500 and the Nasdaq rose to records after the open. The Dow Jones Industrial Average did not quite, but still rose 104.25 points, or 0.27%. The S&P 500 gained 20.11 points, or 0.39% and the Nasdaq Composite gained 97.91 points, or 0.62%.
 
The news published on the date March 09, 2024 02:29 AM IST with headline  Gold marches higher as US jobs data boosts bets of early rate cut is: 
 Gold marches higher as US jobs data boosts bets of early rate cut Gold prices surged to a fresh record high on Friday as data showing a rise in the U.S. unemployment rate boosted expectations that the Federal Reserve could begin cutting interest rates soon.Spot gold rose 0.7% to $2,173.49 per ounce by 10:42 a.m. ET (1542 GMT), while U.S. gold futures added 0.7% to $2,180.50.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBullion was on track to post its biggest weekly percentage increase since mid-October.Gold reached an all-time high of $2,185.19 after a report showed a rise in the U.S. unemployment rate and a moderation in wage gains despite job growth acceleration in February."We still believe the same underlying premise remains, which is the combination of the expectation that the Fed is still going to cut rates later this year and dollar weakness," said David Meger, director of metals trading at High Ridge Futures.
 
The news published on the date March 08, 2024 09:36 PM IST with headline  Bitcoin rises to record high over $70,000 is: 
 The leading cryptocurrency topped the $70,000 mark for the first time, boosted by investor demand for new U.S. spot exchange-traded crypto products and expectations for global interest rates to fall. Bitcoin rallied to a record high on Friday in volatile trade, as crypto mania continued to sweep through the investment community.The leading cryptocurrency topped the $70,000 mark for the first time, boosted by investor demand for new U.S. spot exchange-traded crypto products and expectations for global interest rates to fall.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBillions of dollars have flowed into ETFs in the past few weeks and the market is getting extra support from an outlook that includes an upgrade to the ethereum blockchain platform, home to bitcoin rival ether, and a bitcoin "halving" event, which slows the flow of bitcoin minting, in April.The approval of 11 spot bitcoin ETFs by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in late January had marked a watershed moment for the industry, following an 18-month long crypto winter plagued by a string of high-profile corporate bankruptcies and scandals.Even institutional investors who once shunned crypto due to its sharp and wild moves, have begun committing long-term money too, which analysts say could help sustain the latest leg of this rally.Net flows into the 10 largest U.S. spot bitcoin funds reached $2.2 billion in the week ended March 1, with more than $2 billion of that going into BlackRock's iShares Bitcoin Trust, according to LSEG data.The recent optimism over bitcoin has also spilled over to other digital tokens, particularly ether, which ranks second behind bitcoin in terms of total market value, up more than 60% since the start of the year.Still, some say it's hard to shake off the speculative nature of these assets. After hitting the record high on Tuesday, bitcoin sharply reversed course and fell more than 10% back below the $60,000 level.Story continues below Advertisemen
 
The news published on the date March 08, 2024 08:16 PM IST with headline  MCA raises exemption limit for M&A without prior CCI approval is: 
 These easier rules apply only if the deal is not too big. In a bid to boost ease of doing business, the government on March 8 announced to raise the threshold for smaller business deals, including mergers and acquisitions, to happen without prior approval of the Competition Commission Of India (CCI).When one company buys another or merges, if the deal for assets is up to Rs 450 crore in India or if the businesses' turnover is Rs 1,250 crore, they will be exempted from prior approval under the Competition Act, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs said in a gazette notification.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe earlier threshold stood at Rs 350 crore for value of assets and Rs 1,000 crore for turnover.The increased asset and revenue thresholds described above are applicable for a period of 2 years, with effect from 7 March, 2024.“These easier rules apply only if the deal is not too big. Specifically, if the deal is for assets worth up to Rs 450 crore (about $54 million) in India, or if the businesses involved make up to Rs 1,250 crore (about $150 million) in sales in India. If just a part of a company is being bought or merged, only the value and sales of that part count. The value includes things like brand value, patents, copyrights, and similar rights,” Venkatesh, Managing Partner, SKV Law Offices, told Moneycontrol.
 
The news published on the date March 08, 2024 07:31 PM IST with headline  The trouble with cheaper cooking gas as a gift for women on International Women’s Day is: 
 Women should not be the sole custodians of the kitchen The government has slashed the price of cooking gas by Rs 100 per cylinder, and extended the Rs 300 per cylinder subsidy under the Ujjwala scheme for another year starting April 1. You would welcome this relief to the less well-off in these straitened times, unless, of course, you are a fiscal hawk. As this special bird of prey, you would see the Rs 12,000 crore burden the subsidy places on the exchequer as both potentially inflationary, via its impact of widening the fiscal deficit, and morally corrupting, encouraging people to depend on handouts, instead of striving to stand on their own two feet.What is not so innocuous is the manner in which the government has described its cooking gas subsidy as a gift to Indian women on International Women’s Day. What is wrong with that, you might ask. After all, women are the ones who feel the pressures on the household budget, especially outlays on food and the kitchen, most acutely. Why not describe a measure that provides relief on this front as a gift to women? The only thing wrong with it is that the uncritical association of women with their traditional roles could, over time, lead to our decline as a people, as an economy, as a nation.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSteep Fertility Rate DeclineIf that sounds wild, take a look at South Korea. The total fertility rate, the average number of children a woman can be expected to have over her lifetime, is 0.72 there, about one-third the 2.1 required for the population to remain stable.Intuitively, it is obvious that when a woman gives birth to two children over her lifetime, she would ensure that when she and her partner grow old and die, there would be two new humans to replace them. But, for a population, the replacement birth rate is not two, but 2.1, because not all children who are born grow into reproductive adulthood.
 
The news published on the date March 08, 2024 06:33 PM IST with headline  Tech stocks see biggest weekly outflow on record,says BofA is: 
 Tech stocks see biggest weekly outflow on record,says BofA Investors dumped technology stocks at the fastest rate on record and continued to pour money into investment grade bonds and cash equivalents in the week to Wednesday, Bank of America said on Friday, citing data from EPFR.Tech stocks saw $4.4 billion of outflows in the latest week, their "largest outflow ever" and the first outflow in nine weeks, BofA said in its weekly roundup of fund flows in and out of world markets, without specifying how far back its figures went.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe data covers the week to Wednesday, March 6, when U.S. tech stocks fell sharply. That included Apple, whose shares finished 2.8% lower after a research report showed iPhone sales in China fell 24% year-on-year in the first six weeks of 2024. [.N]Tech shares have since rebounded somewhat and the S&P 500 hit another closing high on Thursday. Its large gains in recent months have been mainly led by large technology companies.There were $32 billion of flows into cash and $13.3 billion into investment grade bonds, the largest inflow since September 2020, BofA said.
 
The news published on the date March 09, 2024 01:22 AM IST with headline  Govt leaves interest rates on small savings schemes unchanged for April-June is: 
 Interest rates on small savings schemes, while set by the government, are linked to market yields on government securities at a spread of 0-100 basis points over the yield of these securities of comparable maturities. The Union government on March 8 left interest rates on small savings schemes unchanged for April-June, making it the first time in seven quarters that rates on these instruments have not been increased.The finance ministry started raising small savings interest rates in October-December 2022 after leaving them unchanged for nine consecutive quarters.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: Govt keeping PPF interest rate lower than what formula says due to tax benefit"The rates of interest on various Small Savings Schemes for the first quarter of FY 2024-25 starting from 1st April, 2024 and ending on 30th June, 2024 shall remain unchanged from those notified for the fourth quarter (1st January, 2024 to 31st March, 2024) of FY 2023-24. This has the approval of the competent authority," a government notification said.SMALL SAVINGS INSTRUMENTINTEREST RATE FOR APR-JUN 2024Savings deposit4.0%One-year time deposit6.9%Two-year time deposit7.0%Three-year time deposit7.1%Five-year time deposit7.5%Five-year recurring deposit6.7%Senior Citizen Savings Scheme8.2%Monthly Income Account7.4%National Savings Certificate7.7%Public Provident Fund Scheme7.1%Kisan Vikas Patra7.5% (115 months)Sukanya Samriddhi Account Scheme8.2%Small savings interest rates, while set by the government, are linked to market yields on government securities at a spread of 0-100 basis points over the yield of these securities of comparable maturities. As such, when market yields on government securities fall, interest rates on small savings schemes should also be decreased.However, the small savings interest rates have been left unchanged for the second quarter of 2024 despite a fall in government bond yields. In December 2023-February 2024 - which is the reference period for small savings interest rates for April-June 2024 - yields on five- and 10-year government bonds fell by around 20 basis points. Yield on the government's 364-day Treasury bill also edged lower by a marginal 3 basis points.One basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point.
 
The news published on the date March 08, 2024 04:25 PM IST with headline  Business in the Week Ahead: March 11-15 is: 
 Planner The benchmark stock market indices scaled new highs this week amid optimism about the economy. The strong economic growth in December 2023 quarter triggered upgrades in gross domestic product (GDP) estimates. Ratings agency Moody’s raised India’s GDP growth forecast for FY24 to around 8 percent from 6.6 percent. Activity in the domestic economy remains upbeat.The HSBC Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) for the rose to the highest level in five month
 
The news published on the date March 09, 2024 02:28 AM IST with headline  The Reading List: March 8, 2024 is: 
 A selection of articles and social media gems from the world of economy, business and finance. In a world strapped for time, we thought you may find it useful to have a selection of articles we read this past week. As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. Occasionally, we may stray from these subjects.These links may be from external websites we frequent o
 
The news published on the date March 08, 2024 03:33 PM IST with headline  Stocks hit record highs ahead of US payrolls data is: 
 Stocks hit record highs ahead of US payrolls data Global shares hit record highs on Friday, as investors bet on transatlantic interest rate cuts starting within months and hoped that U.S. payroll numbers before the opening bell on Wall Street point to continued resilience, but not overheating, in the U.S. economy.The U.S. Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank this week left markets expecting rate cuts beginning in the summer, putting downward pressure on U.S. government bond yields.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe dollar headed for its sharpest weekly drop of the year on the growing likelihood of lower borrowing costs later in the year, while the yen gained on mounting speculation of a rate rise in Japan. Crude oil prices rose on signs of growing demand in the United States and China, while gold hit a record high, enjoying its best week in five months.The MSCI All-Country stock index was up 0.2%, near its record high of 774.66 points from earlier in the session.A year ago, investors were staring down the barrel of a U.S. banking crisis and worries about credit, but since then tech stocks have pushed stock indexes to record highs on the back of an AI boom, said Patrick Spencer, RW Baird vice chair of equities.
 
The news published on the date March 08, 2024 12:06 PM IST with headline  Financial crises are a feature, not a bug, of the US system is: 
 The upshot was a systematic lowering of mortgage standards, a long credit expansion and eventually a massive financial crisis, for which taxpayers had to foot the bill. It’s a year since the failures of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank – and the renewed cries of “never again.” Almost instantly began inquiries to work out who to blame, as well as hurried efforts to tighten banking rules, raise capital demands and enact laws to make executives pay.Within months, the Federal Reserve issued a highly technical proposal for rule changes that runs to nearly 1,100 pages. Some updates were due but SVB’s collapse inspired a much heavier rewrite. The Senate Banking Committee has come up with the Recoup Act, to make executives accountable for bank failures and to pay back more of their rewards.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThese restart familiar battles, which are pitched as specific economic tradeoffs. Curb bank profits with higher capital demands and they’ll have to cut lending to ordinary people and companies. Give unelected bureaucrats excessive powers to claw back pay and to kick executives out of their jobs, then talented people will work elsewhere.The truth is neither of these efforts will fundamentally fix banking, or starve the economy of credit. They are mere tweaks to deeper, long-term political and social bargains that last for decades, or more. A country’s banking system is forged in the balance between the powers of interest groups to demand access to credit, the ability of bankers to lobby for their own protections and profits, and the borrowing needs of governments themselves, among other things.For example, the first great modern bargain was made through the development of the Bank of England in the late 17th and 18th centuries. In return for lending to the state to fund Britain’s wars, the then-privately owned bank was given strong protections from competitors in literally printing money and given strong protections in other commercial activities.
 
The news published on the date March 08, 2024 12:06 PM IST with headline  States to see quality of deficit at its 6-year best in FY25: India Ratings is: 
 The 26 budgets presented so far represent states that accounted for 96.1 percent of India’s GDP in 2021-22. Indian states are likely to see the quality of deficit improving to its best level in six years in 2024-25, according to a India Ratings and Research study of 26 regional budgets tabled so far.Measuring the quality of deficit as the revenue deficit as a percentage of the fiscal deficit - where a lower percentage means better quality of deficit - India Ratings found that the figure halving to 7.3 percent in 2024-25 from 14.7 percent in 2023-24, with the consolidated fiscal deficit pegged at 3.0 percent of GDP and revenue deficit at 0.2 percent of GDP.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: GDP growth-tax collections relationship is now complicated"This also means borrowings are primarily used for capex and the focus on capex has remained intact," said Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist at India Ratings, in a note on March 7.
 
The news published on the date March 08, 2024 11:55 AM IST with headline  India, four-nation European bloc to sign trade deal on March 10 is: 
 India, four-nation European bloc to sign trade deal on March 10 India and a small group of European nations are likely to sign a trade pact on March 10 in which New Delhi has sought a $100 billion investment commitment from the bloc, the Economic Times reported on Friday.The European Free Trade Association (EFTA) - which includes Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Switzerland, nations not part of the European Union - has been in talks with India for a trade deal on goods, services, and investment promotion.Story continues below AdvertisementUnder the deal, India is considering duty cuts on limited gold imports from Switzerland, the Economic Times said.India's Commerce Ministry did not immediately respond to requests for comment
 
The news published on the date March 08, 2024 10:25 AM IST with headline  Indian airlines shouldn't gamble with stricter safety is: 
 With more than 90 percent of its 1.4 billion people never having flown, Indian airlines have years of growth ahead. Indian pilots are exhausted, battling erratic schedules, consecutive late-night departures and excessive hours.Yet airlines are pushing back against new rules from the aviation regulator that mandate longer breaks and shorter work hours for cockpit crew. Fearful of higher costs and restricted operations, carriers want to delay implementation. They shouldn’t.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdInstead, India’s aviation industry needs to embrace these rules quickly with the understanding that safer skies and a greater emphasis on working conditions can only help business and lure more customers. The pain of tighter working hours will be short-lived, but the the benefits will be enduring.Among the new stipulations released in January are mandates that weekly rest periods be increased to 48 hours from 36 hours to allow recovery from accumulated fatigue. Maximum flight times have also been cut and the definition of night duty — when reduced work times are enforced — will be broadened.The Federation of India Airlines, which represents carriers including Air India, IndiGo, SpiceJet Ltd and Vistara, said last week that these new stipulations are the world’s most restrictive. They will require 25 percent more pilots, and may result in the cancellation of up to 20 percent of flights, the Economic Times reported. The new rules are to go in effect June 1. Airlines believe it’ll be almost impossible to comply on time and want that pushed back by a year.
 
The news published on the date March 08, 2024 07:59 AM IST with headline  Fed's Jerome Powell: "Not far" from confidence needed to cut rates is: 
 Fed's Jerome Powell: "Not far" from confidence needed to cut rates Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell said on Thursday the U.S. central bank was "not far" from gaining the confidence it needs in falling inflation to begin cutting interest rates."I think we are in the right place," Powell said of the current stance of monetary policy in a hearing before the Senate Banking Committee. "We are waiting to become more confident that inflation is moving sustainably down to 2%. When we do get that confidence, and we’re not far from it, it will be appropriate to begin to dial back the level of restriction so that we don’t drive the economy into recession.”Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe comment showed Powell's faith that recent higher-than-expected inflation readings and other strong economic data won't interrupt the ongoing decline in price pressures that took root last year.The Fed chair has been reluctant to declare the inflation battle finished, and cautioned in testimony to the Senate panel, as he did Wednesday before the House Financial Services Committee, that further progress back to the Fed's 2% target was not assured.The most recent data showed headline inflation, as measured by the Fed's preferred Personal Consumption Expenditures price index, at 2.4%, with a related measure of underlying inflation at a slightly higher 2.8%.
 
The news published on the date March 07, 2024 11:25 PM IST with headline  Gold scales new record peaks as rate cut bets burnish appeal is: 
 Gold scales new record peaks as rate cut bets burnish appeal Gold raced to an all-time high on Thursday, extending its record run this week as increasing bets for U.S. monetary easing added to sustained tailwinds for bullion from central bank buying and safe-haven demand.Spot gold was up 0.5% to $2,157.89 per ounce as of 12:18 p.m. ET (1718 GMT), hitting an all-time high of $2,164.09 during the Asian trading hours.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdU.S. gold futures rose 0.3% to $2,165.30.Powell said the Fed is "not far" from getting enough confidence that inflation is heading to the Fed's 2% goal to be able to start interest-rate cuts.Traders are now pricing in a 72% chance of a June rate cut, versus around 63% on Feb. 29, the CME's Fedwatch Tool showed.
 
The news published on the date March 07, 2024 11:06 PM IST with headline  Shares rally, yields fall with ECB, Powell and US jobs driving markets is: 
 Shares rally, yields fall with ECB, Powell and US jobs driving markets European and U.S. shares extended rallies on Thursday, and benchmark bond yields fell after the European Central Bank held interest rates steady and Fed Chair Jerome Powell said that easing was likely in 2024, if inflation behaved.The yen surged and stocks in Tokyo fell overnight, with market adjustments before Friday's crucial February payrolls report.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhile the ECB left its policy rate at a record high, it took a first, small step towards lowering it, saying inflation was easing faster than it anticipated only a few months ago.That sent the pan-European STOXX 600 to a record high, up 1.09%, while Europe's broad FTSEurofirst 300 index rose 22.04 points, or 1.11%.Powell on Wednesday testified before the House Financial Services Committee that rate reductions will "likely be appropriate" this year "if the economy evolves broadly as expected" and once officials gain more confidence in inflation's steady decline. He repeated those comments before the Senate Banking Committee on Thursday.
 
The news published on the date March 07, 2024 08:12 PM IST with headline  Gold surge could dull India wedding season demand; China outlook robust is: 
 Gold surge could dull India wedding season demand; China outlook robust A surge in global gold prices to record highs could dampen consumption during the wedding season in India, but top buyer China will see robust safe-haven demand this year, analysts and traders said.China and India together account for more than half of total global gold demand.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBenchmark spot prices hit a record high $2,164.09 on Thursday, driven mostly by bets for U.S. monetary easing, which increases investors' appetite for the zero-yield paper gold as opposed to competing assets such as Treasury bonds and the dollar. [GOL/]In India, the world's second-largest gold consumer and a major importer, domestic prices rose to a record 65,587 rupees per 10 grams.The rise in prices led to a drop in demand which prompted dealers to offer discounts of about $14 an ounce over official domestic prices – inclusive of 15% import and 3% sales levies – versus last week's $1 premiums.
 
The news published on the date March 07, 2024 08:40 PM IST with headline  Bonanza for govt employees as Cabinet OKs 4% hike in dearness allowance is: 
 Centre hikes DA to 50% of basic pay for its employees To compensate against price rise, the Union Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on March 7 approved to release an additional instalment of Dearness Allowance (DA) to Central Government employees and Dearness Relief (DR) to pensioners representing an increase of 4 percent.The increase, which is applicable from January 1, 2024, will push up DA and dearness relief (DR) to 50 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe allowance will benefit 49.18 lakh employees and 67.95 lakh pensioners, said Union Minister Piyush Goyal during the Cabinet decisions briefing. This increase is in accordance with the accepted formula, which is based on the recommendations of the 7th Central Pay Commission.The latest hike will cost the exchequer Rs 12,868.72 crore per annum, he added.The previous hike came ahead of Diwali in October 2023, wherein the government had increased the dearness allowance and dearness relief by 4 percentage points to 46 percent with effect from July 1, 2023 to benefit 48.67 lakh central government employees and 67.95 lakh pensioners. The cumulative financial impact resulting from hike in DR and DA was estimated at Rs 12,857 crore annually.
 
The news published on the date March 07, 2024 07:41 PM IST with headline  US applications for jobless claims hold at healthy levels is: 
 US applications for jobless claims hold at healthy levels US applications for jobless benefits were unchanged last week, settling at a healthy level as the labor market continues to show strength in the face of elevated interest rates.Unemployment claims for the week ending March 2 were 217,000, matching the previous week's revised level, the Labor Department reported Thursday.Story continues below AdvertisementThe four-week average of claims, a less volatile measure, fell by 750 from the previous week to 212,250.Weekly unemployment claims are broadly viewed as representative of the number of US layoffs in a given week. They have remained at historically low levels since the pandemic purge of millions of jobs in the spring of 2020.In total, 1.9 million Americans were collecting jobless benefits during the week that ended Feb. 24, an increase of 8,000 from the previous week and the most since November
 
The news published on the date March 07, 2024 07:09 PM IST with headline  ECB takes small step towards rate cut as inflation falls is: 
 ECB takes small step towards rate cut as inflation falls The European Central Bank kept borrowing costs at record highs on Thursday but took a first, small step towards lowering them, saying inflation was easing faster than it anticipated only a few months ago.Having underestimated a sudden surge in prices two years ago, the central bank for the 20 countries sharing the euro has been reluctant to declare victory over what turned out to be the most brutal bout of inflation in decades.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdLeaving its main interest rate unchanged at 4.0% as expected, the ECB tweaked its message slightly to reflect a continued fall in inflation over the past 1-1/2 years and new, lower economic projections."Since the last Governing Council meeting in January, inflation has declined further," the ECB said in a statement. "Although most measures of underlying inflation have eased further, domestic price pressures remain high, in part owing to strong growth in wages."Having managed to talk traders out of betting on a rate cut in early spring, the central bank studiously avoided making any promises on Thursday.
 
The news published on the date March 07, 2024 06:32 PM IST with headline  Oil prices slip on view US rate cuts could be delayed is: 
 Oil prices slip on view US rate cuts could be delayed Oil prices slipped on Thursday as expectations that U.S. interest rate cuts could be delayed capped gains, though upbeat Chinese trade data augured well for demand in the world's top oil importer.Brent crude futures were down 34 cents or 0.4% to $82.62 a barrel by 1242 GMT, while U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude futures inched down 29 cents or 0.3% to $78.84 a barrel.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOil prices retreated from near a 2024 high hit on Wednesday after U.S. data showed oil stocks rose less than expected and fuel inventories fell, in a sign of robust demand.Still, markets were bracing for the likelihood that the U.S. Federal Reserve could delay its first interest rate cut to the second half of this year in a boost to the U.S. dollar, according to a Reuters poll of foreign exchange strategists.A strong greenback dents demand for dollar-denominated oil among buyers using other currencies.
 
The news published on the date March 07, 2024 05:52 PM IST with headline  NLC India OFS subscribed 2.92 times; finmin to exercise green shoe option is: 
 NLC India is a Navratna Public Sector Enterprise NLC India's Offer for Sale (OFS) has been subscribed 2.92 times from non-retail investors on Thursday, after which the Finance Ministry said it will exercise the green shoe option.“NLC India Limited offer for sale received enthusiastic response from non-retail investors today. The issue was subscribed 2.92 times of the base size (Non Retail Category). The Government has decided to exercise the green shoe option,” Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey tweeted.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRetail investors get to bid in the OFS on March 11, he added.NLC India is a Navratna Public Sector Enterprise under the Ministry of Coal involved in lignite production and thermal and renewable energy generation.The government aims to raise up to Rs 2,000 crore-Rs 2,100 crore from the OFS.
 
The news published on the date March 07, 2024 04:27 PM IST with headline  Rupee ends slightly higher, notches fourth straight weekly gain is: 
 Rupee ends slightly higher, notches fourth straight weekly gain The Indian rupee ended marginally stronger on Thursday after hitting its highest level in six months earlier in the session, as likely intervention from the central bank limited the currency's rise.The rupee closed at 82.7850 against the U.S. dollar, higher by 0.05% compared with its close at 82.8225 in the previous session. The local unit rose 0.1% in the week, logging its fourth consecutive weekly gain.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhile the rupee climbed to a peak of 82.7350 early in the session, the highest level since September, the Reserve Bank of India bought dollars via state-run banks which trimmed the unit's gains, traders said.In addition to the RBI's intervention, dollar demand from importers also weighed on the rupee, a foreign exchange trader at a foreign bank said."Attempts to breach 82.70 could create room for the (dollar-rupee) pair to fall a little more … would prefer shorts keeping a stop loss near 82.95 at current levels," the trader added.
 
The news published on the date March 07, 2024 03:36 PM IST with headline  Expect nickel and gas prices to be lower for longer is: 
 Indonesia’s nickel hub. (Source: Bloomberg/Getty Images AsiaPac) Every student of the commodity market soon learns the industry’s main axiom: “Low prices cure low prices, and high prices cure high prices.” That’s why commodities are known as a boom-and-bust industry: Periods of over-investment lead to gluts and low prices, which trigger under-investment, which ultimately curbs supply and sends prices up. What many aren’t taught is that this self-evident principle is often misleading, if not completely false.The latest examples: the global nickel and US natural gas markets, where the accepted truth that low prices cure low prices isn’t working out as the axiom claims.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThat’s a boon for the energy transition because both nickel and gas are key in the fight against climate change. Nickel is a must-have for electric vehicle batteries, while gas is seen as a bridge fuel between coal and renewables.But low prices – and the prospect that they could remain low for an extended period – are terrible for the producers that are already curtailing output or even abandoning entire projects.Two moves have caught the attention of the market. First, Glencore Plc, the world’s largest commodity trader, put its flagship multibillion nickel mine into “care and maintenance” on Feb 12, a first step before selling it or closing it for good. Second, on March 4, EQT Corp, the largest US natural gas producer, said it was cutting its output by about 6 percent this quarter after USgas prices fell close to a 25-year low.
 
The news published on the date March 07, 2024 03:28 PM IST with headline  Yen fired up by speculation of imminent BOJ policy shift is: 
 Yen fired up by speculation of imminent BOJ policy shift The yen headed on Thursday for its biggest daily rally versus the dollar this year, driven by growing speculation that the Bank of Japan could finally raise rates this month, while the euro steadied ahead of a European Central Bank meeting.The Japanese currency rallied by as much as 1.1% against the dollar, the most in a day since mid-December, and made gains against the euro and sterling.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe euro was last 1% lower at 161.22 yen, while the pound fell 0.8% to 188.54 yen.BOJ board member Junko Nakagawa said on Thursday Japan's economy was moving steadily towards sustainably achieving the central bank's 2% inflation target.Her comments come one day after Jiji news agency reported that at least one of the central bank's nine board members is likely to say that removing negative interest rates would be reasonable at this month's policy meeting.
 
The news published on the date March 07, 2024 03:27 PM IST with headline  What happens if EV makers go bust? is: 
 Modern autos rely on software as much as hardware. (Source: Bloomberg) Fisker Inc’s warning that it may run out of cash within 12 months absent fresh equity or debt raises a new and worrying question for car owners: What happens if the maker of your electric vehicle goes bust? Modern cars are highly sophisticated computers on wheels, reliant on expensive batteries and regular software updates to function properly.Consumers should extend their pre-purchase homework to include an assessment of the financial health of the manufacturer and, if in doubt, consider leasing rather than buying that expensive new ride.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAmid slowing demand, high cash burn rates and price-sapping competition there have already been several high-profile EV failures but these mostly involved startups that had yet to generate meaningful revenue, such as the UK arm of Arrival SA and Ohio-based Lordstown Motors Corp.Having sold almost 5,000 electric SUVs last year and after setting a target of around 21,000 deliveries in 2024, Fisker is holding talks with an automaker — reportedly Nissan Motor Co — plus an existing debt holder about possible investments, which is potentially good news.I want to emphasise I’m not implying that Fisker or any of the particular companies mentioned below will go bust. But I do think more business failures are inevitable in this sector, and I’m not just talking about western manufacturers. Of the more than 150 Chinese new-energy vehicle brands in the market today, only 25 or 30 will survive through to 2030, forecasts AlixPartners, an advisory firm.
 
The news published on the date March 07, 2024 06:14 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | FAME II subsidy scheme, if extended, can turbo charge EV demand is: 
 This calendar year saw demand for electric vehicles pick up. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRecent media reports about an additional outlay of funds for Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles (FAME II) and extension of the time period could be a positive step electric mobility.Given that the FAME II scheme is to end on March 31, 2024, there is widespread speculation over the possibility of a slowdown in electric vehicle (EV) sales thereafter. While the Expenditure Finance Panel, it is reported, recommended support of Rs 10,000 crore for the upcoming FAME-III scheme, it is likely to be approved only after the upcoming general elections, says this article.However, later there are media reports stating a denial by the government of any such extension in time period or additional outlay of funds. According to this Moneycontrol article, "subsidies under the second phase of the FAME Scheme will be eligible for e-vehicles sold till March 31, 2024, or till the time funds are available, the Heavy Industries ministry stated last month." It also shared that the outlay of the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles in India (FAME-II) programme has been enhanced from Rs 10,000 crore to Rs 11,500 crore.
 
The news published on the date March 07, 2024 01:06 PM IST with headline  How trade can save the planet, one tedious spreadsheet at a time is: 
 - If you want to see what green trade policy looks like, it comes in the form of steelmakers around the world grumbling as they fill in spreadsheets about carbon emissions, and palm oil growers from Malaysia and Indonesia poring over the minute detail of photos from satellites.The destination for all this information is Brussels. Environmental trade negotiations at a multilateral level are essentially dead in the water: India is blocking the whole principle of discussing climate chang
 
The news published on the date March 07, 2024 01:13 PM IST with headline  How to give a demand boost to the Indian economy that it so badly needs is: 
 Creating jobs is the most effective way to give a demand boost to the economy. The Indian economy expanded 8.4 percent in the third quarter of the current fiscal that pushes up the growth for the full fiscal year to 7.6 percent. That is an impressive GDP growth rate by any standard. However, the biggest disappointment remains the private consumption which is now expected to grow by 3.01 percent in FY 2023-24 instead of 4.4 percent as given in the first advance estimate.This is the slowest growth in private consumption since 2002-03 when it moderated to 2.9 percent, except during Covid pandemic (2020-21) which saw it contracting 5.3 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTo sustain 7-8 percent GDP growth, consumption must grow as it accounts for as much as 55 percent of the Indian economy.The Struggling MiddleUnfortunately that's not happening. This signals severe financial stress among Indian households. To be more specific, the rich and affluent households don’t need any support and the poorer ones are being taken care of through a series of social welfare schemes starting with free ration to free housing and direct cash transfers. It’s the middle income households which are left to fend for themselves from a compounding effect of sticky inflation, sluggish jobs market and slower growth in disposable incomes. That is adversely affecting their demand for goods and services, and in turn the growth of private consumption.
 
The news published on the date March 07, 2024 10:18 AM IST with headline  Is consumption spending really on the upswing? Advertisers don’t think so is: 
 The consumption survey data to point out that consumption expenditure had grown by 2.5 times over the past decade. Highlights:India’s GDP growth and consumption survey indicate resilient economic growthWith high growth and low poverty incidence, India could move from developing economy to a middle income oneAdvertising spends show a cautious picture on growth, spends are likely to be muted in FY24The growth in overall spending has been largely driven by e-commerce platforms.Muted ad spends indicate weak consumer sentiment which does not bode well for growth Government data usually do not make for exciting reading. But two set
 
The news published on the date March 07, 2024 10:40 AM IST with headline  How effective is SEBI’s advisory to MFs on small and midcap fund schemes? is: 
 SEBI has issued an ‘advisory’ and not amended the Regulations relating to mutual funds or even a direction SEBI has reportedly issued an advisory for mutual funds (see here and ) in respect of schemes relating to investments in small and midcap companies. It is perceived that small and midcap shares may have low liquidity and also higher risks in terms of volatility. SEBI has suggested that investors be advised of such concerns and that mutual funds should undertake self-regulation in these schemes. For example, investment in such shares should be restricted eve
 
The news published on the date March 07, 2024 08:55 AM IST with headline  India's bond market is in a sweet spot on strong flows is: 
 India’s bond market appears to be in a sweet spot. It was a good start to 2024, and bond markets were hoping for the momentum to continue in February. The headline Union Budget presented on 1st February 2024 was cheered by the bond markets – with a lower-than-expected fiscal deficit of 5.1% of GDP and lesser than anticipated gross market borrowings in government bonds (Gsecs) for FY25, bond yields eased across the curve.The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting soon followed on February 6-8, in which as anticipated
 
The news published on the date March 06, 2024 11:32 PM IST with headline  Gold extends record run as rate cut bets gain ground is: 
 Gold extends record run as rate cut bets gain ground Gold rallied to a fresh record on Wednesday, building on stellar momentum driven mostly by bets for U.S. monetary easing, while autocatalyst palladium popped back above the $1,000 mark for the first time since Jan. 12.Spot gold gained 0.6% to $2,139.39 per ounce as of 1542 GMT after hitting an all-time high of $2,148.99 earlier in the session. U.S. gold futures rose 0.3% to $2,147.60.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSilver added 1.2% to $23.97.On Wednesday, gold got an additional fillip as the dollar fell after Fed Chair Jerome Powell indicated a rate cut later this year. [USD/] [US/]Gold suffers when high U.S. interest rates raise returns on competing assets such as bonds and boost the dollar, making the bullion costlier to buy with foreign currencies.,
 
The news published on the date March 06, 2024 11:19 PM IST with headline  Oil prices climb 2% on small build in US crude stocks, Fed rate cut seen is: 
 Oil prices climb 2% on small build in US crude stocks, Fed rate cut seen Oil prices climbed about 2% on Wednesday on a smaller-than-expected build in U.S. crude inventories, a big withdrawal from distillate and gasoline stockpiles and remarks by the U.S. Federal Reserve chief that he still expects interest rate cuts this year.Lower interest rates could increase demand for oil by boosting economic growth.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBrent futures rose $1.34, or 1.6%, to $83.38 a barrel by 12:09 p.m. EST (1709 GMT), while U.S. crude rose $1.70, or 2.2%, to $79.85.That put Brent on track for its first daily rise in five sessions.The U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) said energy firms added a smaller-than-expected 1.4 million barrels of crude into stockpiles during the week ended March 1, while distillate and gasoline inventories fell by much more than expected.
 
The news published on the date March 06, 2024 04:19 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Gold fever is: 
 Gold prices have remained resilient amid high-interest scenarios. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe recent surge in global uncertainties has heightened the allure of gold. In a historic milestone, gold prices have reached their peak at $2,126 per ounce, the first time since the inception of gold futures contracts in 1974. Notably, this surpasses the previous high recorded in December 2023. Gold has demonstrated positive returns in four out of the past five years.What's particularly intriguing this time is the timing of this surge. The ascent happened just before Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell's scheduled speech at Congress, leading traders to anticipate hints of a potential reduction in the interest rate trajectory. Decreasing interest rates tend to favour gold prices as investors seek refuge from lower-yielding assets.Market indicators such as the CME Group's FedWatch tool suggest a 70 percent likelihood of the Fed initiating rate cuts by June. The rapidity of this price escalation has also caught many off-guard, with gold experiencing a consecutive 2-week spike. This follows reports of a sustained downturn in the US manufacturing sector throughout February, coupled with a decline in US inflation, the value of the US dollar against major currencies, and treasury yields.
 
The news published on the date March 06, 2024 04:05 PM IST with headline  Rupee rises 7 paise to settle at 82.83 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee rises 7 paise to settle at 82.83 against US dollar The rupee appreciated 7 paise to settle at 82.83 (provisional) against the US dollar on Wednesday, buoyed by a weak American currency against major rivals overseas and a rally in domestic equities.However, surging crude oil prices in international markets put pressure on the local currency and restricted the rise, forex traders said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 82.90 and oscillated between the peak of 82.82 and the lowest level of 82.91 against the greenback during intra-day deals. The currency finally settled at 82.83 (provisional), registering a gain of 7 paise from its previous close.On Tuesday, the rupee settled flat at 82.90 against the US dollar.Meanwhile, the dollar index, which gauges the greenback's strength against a basket of six currencies, declined by 0.19 per cent to 103.55.
 
The news published on the date March 06, 2024 03:40 PM IST with headline  Gold holds above $2,100, near record high; focus on Powell testimony is: 
 Gold holds above $2,100, near record high; focus on Powell testimony Gold prices held above the $2,100 level on Wednesday, near a record peak hit in the previous session, as hopes for U.S. rates easing by mid-year mount, while traders awaited remarks on the economy's health from Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell.Spot gold was steady at $2,127.39 per ounce, as of 0829 GMT. U.S. gold futures fell 0.3% to $2,135.30.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSpot prices hit a record peak of $2,141.59 per ounce on Tuesday, rallying for a fifth straight session.Gold's rally is sentiment driven, which was triggered by last week's poor U.S. economic data that gave little more clarity for a June rate cut, Ajay Kedia, director at Kedia Commodities, Mumbai, said. Without other factors at play, such as dollar's movement, or any surge in geopolitical tensions, gold could see profit taking, he said.Spot gold's 14-day relative strength index spiked to 78, much above the 'overbought' levels at 70.
 
The news published on the date March 08, 2024 08:34 AM IST with headline  Explained: What's driving the rise in participation of women in the workforce? is: 
 Women's Day 2024: The labour force participation rate refers to that percentage of working-age people in a category that are either working or looking for work. While India is today the fifth-largest economy in the world, its ranking in the World Economic Forum's Gender Gap rankings was 127 out of 146 countries in 2023, behind Ethiopia, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Nepal. In terms of involvement in the workforce, India's female Labour Force Participation Rate (LFPR) is roughly half the global average of 47.3 percent, as per the World Bank.According to the statistics ministry's latest Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) released on February 12, the male urban LFPR for India stood at 74.1 percent in October-December 2023, while the female urban LFPR was 25 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: India needs more female workers to become developed, says World Bank economistBut is female LFPR rising?The answer is an unequivocal yes.
 
The news published on the date March 06, 2024 01:19 PM IST with headline  Government steps up outreach to foreign investors with CPSE roadshows is: 
 Government steps up outreach to foreign investors with CPSE roadshows To attract foreign investments and showcase India's burgeoning opportunities, the government has prepared a strategy to step up outreach to foreign investors.The government has commenced roadshows to pitch Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs) to potential investors, government sources told CNBC-TV18.Story continues below AdvertisementAccording to the sources, CPSEs have been tasked with undertaking roadshows to garner investor feedback and interest.The recent roadshow featuring the General Insurance Company (GIC) in the UK, US, Singapore, and Hong Kong stands as a testament to this initiative. GIC is a significant player in the general insurance sector.The government's proactive approach has received positive feedback from foreign investors, indicating a growing interest in India's state-owned enterprises.The sources told CNBC-TV18 that more CPSE roadshows are on the horizon, with a potential focus on sectors such as oil and gas, among others.By engaging with global stakeholders through roadshows, the government aims to bolster investor confidence and facilitate strategic partnerships for the country's economic growth
 
The news published on the date March 06, 2024 01:07 PM IST with headline  India to grow at 6.8% in FY'25, to become upper middle-income country by 2031: Crisil Ratings is: 
 India to grow at 6.8% in FY'25, to become upper middle-income country by 2031: Crisil Ratings Crisil Ratings on Wednesday projected India's GDP growth at 6.8 per cent in the next fiscal and said the country will become an upper middle-income nation by 2031 with the economy doubling to USD 7 trillion.In its India Outlook report, Crisil said the Indian economy will take support from domestic structural reforms and cyclical levers and can retain -- perhaps even improve -- its growth prospects to become the third largest economy by 2031.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"After a better-than-expected 7.6 per cent this fiscal, India's real GDP growth will likely moderate to 6.8 per cent in fiscal 2025," said the Crisil India Outlook report.It said that the next seven fiscals (2025-2031) will see the Indian economy crossing the USD 5 trillion-mark and inching closer to USD 7 trillion."A projected average expansion of 6.7 per cent in this period will make India the third-largest economy in the world and lift per capita income to the upper-middle income category by 2031," Crisil said.
 
The news published on the date March 06, 2024 01:05 PM IST with headline  Exclusive: MCA to intensify action against Chinese companies, finds fraud in a majority of 500 companies investigated is: 
 665 Chinese companies in India are under probe by the MCA The ministry of corporate affairs (MCA) has uncovered fraudulent activities in a majority of the 500 Chinese companies that have had their investigation reports finalised. The MCA is now readying an action plan, including summoning the directors of these companies, which include those hosting loan apps, and filing charges before the special courts, three government officials said.MCA investigations into loan apps operating in the country focus on predatory lending practices, fraud or violations of financial regulations. In recent years, there has been growing concern over the proliferation of digital lending apps in India, some of which have been linked to Chinese companies. These apps have been accused of employing aggressive tactics, charging exorbitant interest rates and engaging in unethical practices such as harassment of borrowers.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAccording to one of the MCA officials, in cases of failure to comply with mandatory filing requirements, the companies will be struck off or removed from the official register of companies and their legal existence ended, they said.“Investigation on more than 70 percent of the Chinese companies has been already completed out of the total 665 under probe. The reports have been submitted,” a senior government official told Moneycontrol.These companies came under the MCA scanner for various non-compliance issues and alleged fraudulent activities, including siphoning funds. Entities incorporated under the Companies Act are required to do annual e-filing of documents such as their balance sheets and profit and loss accounts with the Registrar of Companies.
 
The news published on the date March 06, 2024 01:04 PM IST with headline  Inflation reached double-digit growth in Congress regime, our govt contained it below 5%: Amit Shah is: 
 Inflation reached double-digit growth in Congress regime, our govt contained it below 5%: Amit Shah Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday said their government contained the inflation below 5 per cent while it had reached double-digit growth during the Congress-led UPA regime.Before 2014, the Indian economy was fragile, inflation was high and fiscal deficit was beyond control, Shah said at the India Global Forum's annual investment summit NXT10 in Mumbai.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdToday, India has emerged as a policy-driven state, he said."We are approaching elections with our government's performance of last 10 years and roadmap of next 25 years," the Union minister said ahead of the upcoming Lok Sabha polls.Lauding Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a visionary PM, Shah said that by 2047, when the country celebrates its centenary of independence, Bharat will be completely developed, atmanirbhar (self-reliant) and among the top three economies in the world.
 
The news published on the date March 06, 2024 11:03 AM IST with headline  Gender Pay Gap: Zero is the goal. But what happens next? is: 
 More hard work is needed not only to achieve pay equality, but create workplaces where women have equal opportunities. What happens if we ever get to a zero gender pay gap? If we do hit that milestone, can we declare victory?The answer is: not really. Reaching anywhere near zero will be a feat, but not the be-all-and-end-all. While a bellwether of how we value women’s economic and corporate contributions, eradicating this discrimination won’t mean instant equality. More hard work is needed not only to achieve pay equality, but create workplaces where women have equal opportunities.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdYes, we are a long way off parity. But it’s worth kick-starting the discussion. Especially when more countries are beginning to push for ambitious targets. Canada, France and Spain are among nations that require in-depth analysis of gendered wage information, and more than half of Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development countries now mandate that private sector companies report their pay gap.Australia last week unveiled individual compensation gaps for companies with at least 100 employees. As expected, the data showed most still pay women less than men — and in some instances, a lot less. But not much attention was given to that fact that the Workplace Gender Equality Agency, which compiled the data, has set a target of -5 percent to +5 percent for the gender gap. Of the 5,000-plus companies that reported, 30 percent are already there. Despite the dire predictions that it will take more than 100 years to reach parity, these firms show it can be done.Very few countries have come close to that, and even if they have, it might be hard to tell given how calculations vary greatly across geographies.Australia’s own gender equality agency has the nation’s pay gap at 19 percent, while the OECD puts it at 9.9 percent, slightly below the spread of countries under its ambit.
 
The news published on the date March 06, 2024 10:37 AM IST with headline  India cautious on contracted Russian oil as US sanctions bite is: 
 India cautious on contracted Russian oil as US sanctions bite India’s state-run oil refiners are shying away from contracted Russian crude supply as the once-booming trade becomes much harder under tighter enforcement of US sanctions.The biggest state-owned refiner Indian Oil Corp. will likely reduce the amount of crude received under so-called term supply, while Bharat Petroleum Corp. and Hindustan Petroleum Corp. have decided against making firm commitments to take contracted oil next financial year, six people familiar with the matter said, asking not to identified because the information is private.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe three refiners had been in talks with Russia’s Rosneft PJSC to secure about 500,000 barrels a day — equivalent to a third of India’s daily imports — to try and reduce reliance on one-off purchases that can often be more expensive. The lukewarm response to a suggested contract clause that would address supply disruptions added to the caution from Indian refiners, the people said.Indian Oil has an existing long-term deal with Rosneft, but contracted supply would have been a first for HPCL and BPCL.
 
The news published on the date March 06, 2024 09:51 AM IST with headline  India Inc's inflation expectation settling around 4.3%, shows IIM survey is: 
 Inflation expectations are keenly eyed by policymakers as anchoring them is critical to ensuring price stability. Inflation expectations of Corporate India seem to be settling around 4.3 percent, with the latest Business Inflation Expectations Survey (BIES) of the Indian Institute of Management-Ahmedabad (IIM-A) showing that it declined to 4.37 percent in January.As per the results of the survey, released on March 5, India Inc's one-year-ahead view of inflation is down 21 basis points from 4.58 percent in December 2023. One basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: Explained – 'Discrepancies' in GDP data and how they affect headline growth rate"Average inflation expectation of the firms for the past six months works out to be around 4.3 percent," the survey noted, with Abhiman Das, professor of economics at IIM-A who conducts the survey, saying firms expecting "moderation in cost pressures".
 
The news published on the date March 06, 2024 09:38 AM IST with headline  Jaishankar’s two-nation tour a test for twin-track diplomacy is: 
 Jaishankar’s visit and meetings in Tokyo are expected to provide strategic guidance to functional cooperation between the two sides in these areas HighlightsEAM S. Jaishankar now touring South Korea and JapanJaishankar to discuss wide-ranging issues with leaders of both countriesTies with Korea and Japan are crucial for India’s Indo-Pacific ambitionsIndia’s clout in the Indo-Pacific is imperative for Modi’s “Viksit Bharat” visionIndia has strong cooperation with Japan and South Korea in different fieldsJaishankar’s trip expected to provide further fillip to ties with these two nationsExternal affairs minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar’s two-nation tour of South Korea and Japan is a pointer t
 
The news published on the date March 06, 2024 12:04 PM IST with headline  Capacity boost needs a rethink as RBI seeks to close gaps in climate-risk frameworks is: 
 The RBI draft focuses on four areas for disclosures. Highlights:RBI uses sandbox approach to reduce gap between tech innovation and regulationA draft framework has suggested climate-change related risks should be clubbed with Pillar-3 of Basel rulesThe RBI has prescribed higher disclosures on impact, assessment and remedies of regulated entities on climate changeCapacity of boards and senior personnel of regulated entities would need to be enhanced to tackle climate related risksThe RBI too will have to set a course to boost the capacity of its officer
 
The news published on the date March 06, 2024 09:03 AM IST with headline  Elimination of Extreme Poverty: What the Consumption Expenditure Survey data tells us is: 
 The mean consumption at the percentile level allows us to approximately identify the population below the poverty line. Recently released Household Consumption Expenditure Survey (HCES) data for 2022-23 has led to a series of poverty estimates, and commentary surrounding the extent of poverty decline in India over the last decade. Heightened interest in the findings of the survey is understandable given the long gap of 11 years between the latest and the previous such survey in 2011-12.There are two key results from HCES 22-23. First, that extreme poverty (defined as poverty according to the World Bank’s 2011 PPP$ 1.9 poverty line of per capita per month consumption of Rs. 1454 in rural areas and Rs. 1750 in urban area) has now been eliminated; it is less than 2 percent, compared to 12.5 percent in 2011-12. Second, that consumption inequality in India has declined from its 2011-12 level – a finding consistent from most, if not all, household surveys, private or public, conducted over the last decade. This is in major contrast to the discussion on increasing consumption (and income) inequality in India.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSome have recently pointed out changes in survey methodology, arguing that the two surveys are “non-comparable”. This is an important issue that merits a discussion, particularly on what evidence is there to argue that the two surveys are “non-comparable”. There are changes across every survey – particularly because consumption items itself undergo changes.The National Statistical Office (NSO) seemed to have been well aware of murmurs regarding “incomparability”. All surveys contain differences from previous surveys – computer tabulation versus worksheet, elimination of some items (telephones? vs. mobiles, etc). This does not render the survey as “incomparable”. There is NO reference in the Fact Sheet that 2022-23 survey is not comparable to 2011-12; instead, there is this statement:The changes “are required to be noted while comparing the results of HCES:2022-23 with those of the previous surveys.” (Page 4 of the Fact Sheet On HCES: 2022-23, MOSPI, GoI).
 
The news published on the date March 06, 2024 08:50 AM IST with headline  Why index inclusion is a catalyst for a bigger play on India bonds is: 
 - Highlights2024 is set to be a pivotal year for Indian bond markets, with the inclusion of Indian Government Bonds (IGBs) into a global bond index for the first timeIn the first two months of 2024 itself, the net inflows by foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) into India bonds have touched USD $4.49 billion as against USD $0.84 billion during the same period last year, an over five times jump in inflowsBefore committing strategic allocations to any bond market
 
The news published on the date March 06, 2024 09:38 AM IST with headline  MC Pro Inside Edge | Retail powers Polycab, did savvy HNIs escape unseasonal Rain, Salzer promoters in love with their stock, cold comfort for MFs is: 
 Conventional market wisdom is that insider buying is a much stronger signal to the street than insider selling Retail wisdomPolycab appears to be the latest beneficiary in this all-forgiving bull run. The stock has slowly crawled back to the level it was at just before the I-T raids sent the price hurtling. Mutual funds have stayed away from the stock over the last couple of months. But HNIs and retail investors who bought into the dip have been proved right for now. Their logic was that the raids showed the company was doing even bette
 
The news published on the date March 05, 2024 11:21 PM IST with headline  Dollar slips vs euro as data weighs; bitcoin hits new high is: 
 Dollar slips vs euro as data weighs; bitcoin hits new high The dollar slipped against the euro on Tuesday after data showed U.S. services industry growth eased and as investors braced for a busy week that includes a European Central Bank rate decision, congressional testimony from Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell and U.S. jobs data.Bitcoin hit a record high on Tuesday, fueled by investors pouring money into U.S. spot exchange-traded crypto products and the prospect that global interest rates may fall.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdU.S. services industry growth slowed a bit in February amid a decline in employment, according to the Institute for Supply Management (ISM). Separately, data showed new orders for U.S.-manufactured goods dropped more than expected in January."The ISM numbers today showed growth in the service sector slowed in February, in no small part due to a decline in employment levels, and that has raised some concerns about the strength of the U.S. economy," said Stuart Cole, chief economist at Equiti Capital.The euro was 0.11% higher against the dollar at $1.08675.
 
The news published on the date March 05, 2024 11:19 PM IST with headline  Gold carried to record high on wave of momentum with focus on US rates is: 
 Gold carried to record high on wave of momentum with focus on US rates Gold hit a record high on Tuesday, with growing expectation of U.S. monetary easing and continued geopolitical risk buoying activity from momentum-driven funds which could propel the precious metal further.A wider robust fundamental backdrop added support, including strong physical demand in Asia and central bank purchases as well as bullion's traditional safe-haven cachet. Central banks have been net buyers of gold for eight consecutive months.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSpot gold rose 0.8% to $2,130.79 per troy ounce as of 1540 GMT, after touching its record high of $2,141.59."The move became self-fulfilling with stops triggered and then of course that brings in the momentum funds," said StoneX analyst Rhona O'Connell.From a technical analysis perspective, gold may still have further upside towards $2,180, a Fibonacci projection level.
 
The news published on the date March 05, 2024 07:28 PM IST with headline  Gold surges Rs 800 to hit record high of Rs 65,000 per 10 grams is: 
 Gold surges Rs 800 to hit record high of Rs 65,000 per 10 grams Gold prices on Tuesday surged Rs 800 to hit a fresh record high of Rs 65,000 per 10 grams in the national capital amid strong global trends, according to HDFC Securities.In the previous close, the precious metal had closed at Rs 64,200 per 10 grams.Silver also rallied Rs 900 to Rs 74,900 per kg. In the previous trade, it had settled at Rs 74,000 per kilogram."Spot gold prices (24 carats) in the Delhi markets are trading at Rs 65,000 per 10 grams, up by Rs 800, taking bullish cues from the overseas markets."In domestic markets, spot gold hit a new all-time high of Rs 65,000 on Tuesday," Saumil Gandhi, senior analyst of commodities at HDFC Securities, said.In the international markets, spot gold at Comex was trading at USD 2,110 per ounce, up by more than 1 per cent from the previous close."Gold prices experienced an uptick driven by growing speculation that the US Federal Reserve will cut interest rates in June, thus gain of more than Rs 2,400 was seen in MCX in last three days."The rise was also fuelled by signs of slowing industrial and construction spending in the US, coupled with a decrease in inflationary pressures," Jateen Trivedi, VP Research Analyst at LKP Securities, said.Additionally, heightened geopolitical tensions have dampened the appetite for short-selling, thereby bolstering yellow metal's attractiveness as a buy-on-dip asset, Trivedi added.Silver was also quoting higher at USD 23.88 per ounce. In the previous trade, it had ended at USD 23.09 per ounce."Gold and silver prices were recovered and are trading positive, despite a steady dollar in the overseas market while steady moves in global equities and uncertainty over the US Fed's policies on cutting interest rates have pushed investors towards the safer asset," Pranav Mer, VP of Research (Commodity & Currency) at BlinkX and JM Financial, said. PTI HG HVA HVAStory continues below Advertisemen
 
The news published on the date March 05, 2024 06:01 PM IST with headline  US: Inflation worrywarts are crashing the party is: 
 The inflation data itself, which is all that really matters for monetary policy so long as the labor market stays on track. A curious thing has happened in the US market discourse: In the absence of major concerns about jobs and growth, commentators have started to worry that the economy is too good to keep inflation contained. The most salient recent example is Apollo Global Management Inc. Chief Economist Torsten Slok, who said last week that economic strength will prevent the Federal Reserve from cutting policy rates in 2024.I, for one, am extremely skeptical.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdConsider recent trends. Although the US posted impressively strong growth in the second half of 2023, there are early signs of moderation in the first quarter of 2024. The Atlanta Fed’s GDPNow tracker has gross domestic product expanding at about 2.1% in the first quarter, close to the level that the Congressional Budget Office estimates as the economy’s potential (read: non-inflationary) growth rate. What’s more, there’s evidence from high-frequency retail sales data that real consumption may have weakened in February. Those data points serve to caution us against over-anchoring our views on the real economy to data that’s now several months old.Second, there’s the inflation data itself, which is all that really matters for monetary policy so long as the labor market stays on track. The economy could be growing at 5% a year, but if it doesn’t cause inflation why should policymakers mess with success?Much of the handwringing in markets came on the back of the surprise acceleration in the January core consumer price index, a development that I’ve written about at length (including here and here) in recent weeks. At the risk of sounding like a broken record, that data may well have been influenced by a “January effect” (firms sometimes use the start of a calendar year to raise prices to an extent that isn’t always captured in the seasonal adjustment process). Even more importantly, it was distorted by some extremely quirky housing data.
 
The news published on the date March 05, 2024 05:13 PM IST with headline  How a pharma company is helping transform health of Denmark's economy is: 
 The Danish pharmaceutical industry kept Denmark from falling into a recession last year. (Representative image) From both a biomedical and economic point of view, the success of the new class of weight-loss drugs is something to behold. Not only are they a remarkable scientific achievement, but — in the case of Ozempic and Wegovy, both made by Novo Nordisk — they are a huge boon to the Danish economy. The Danish pharmaceutical industry kept Denmark from falling into a recession last year.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe dependence of some mid-sized economies on a single commodity, often related to oil or natural gas, is a familiar story. The new twist, which may become increasingly common, is a national economy dependent on a single company — not a natural resource. This will lead to some fundamentally new economic and political dynamics.One early example of this phenomenon is Nokia in Finland. Finland is a small country, and Nokia’s global sales of mobile phones were such that by 2000, the company accounted for about 4 percent of national GDP and almost 70 percent of the value of the Finnish stock market. In 2013, having failed to keep up with new technology, Nokia was bought by Microsoft.Will there be more stories like Nokia’s and Novo Nordisk’s? Almost certainly. Many of the world’s best governed countries, which create the legal and economic stability crucial to business success, have populations of between 5 million and 20 million. And the more globalisation proceeds (international trade still is expanding in most economic sectors), the larger such companies can become.
 
The news published on the date March 05, 2024 04:40 PM IST with headline  Minister Jaishankar says review of India-South Korea trade pact must be 'expedited' is: 
 Jaishankar is in South Korea from March 5-6 where he will co-chair the 10th India-Republic of Korea Joint Commission Meeting (JCM) with his counterpart Cho Tae-yul. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has called for a quick conclusion to the review of India's trade agreement with South Korea, adding that the two countries must work together to find more "meeting points" and increase their engagement to realise their potential."To realise our potential, it is important we intensify our engagement in different spheres. Certainly, we need more political discussions, more strategic conversations – which is why I am here," the external affairs minister said on March 5 while speaking at the Korea National Diplomatic Academy in Seoul.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: India seeks greater market access for steel, rice, shrimp from S Korea"We need stronger business connects and technology interactions. The long-pending review of our CEPA (Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement) must be expedited so that it can be upgraded. We will have to identify more intersections and meeting points that work for both of us," Jaishankar added.The minister is in South Korea from March 5-6 where he will co-chair the 10th India-Republic of Korea Joint Commission Meeting (JCM) with his counterpart Cho Tae-yul.
 
The news published on the date March 05, 2024 03:57 PM IST with headline  Rupee gains 1 paisa to settle at 82.89 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee gains 1 paisa to settle at 82.89 against US dollar The rupee settled 1 paisa higher at 82.89 (provisional) against the US dollar on Tuesday amid a strong greenback against major rivals overseas and a negative trend in equity markets.The Indian currency remained under pressure due to volatile crude oil prices and persistent foreign fund outflows, according to forex traders.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 82.90 and oscillated between 82.88 and 82.93 against the greenback during intra-day deals. The currency finally settled at 82.89 (provisional), up 1 paisa from its previous close.On Monday, the rupee settled 1 paise lower at 82.90 against the US dollar.Meanwhile, the dollar index, which gauges the greenback's strength against a basket of six currencies, rose 0.05 per cent to 103.83.
 
The news published on the date March 05, 2024 05:52 PM IST with headline  NHPC to set up 1200 MW solar park project in UP at Rs 797 crore investment is: 
 NHPC to set up 1200 MW solar park project in UP at Rs 797 crore investment State-owned NHPC expects to complete the proposed 1,200 MW solar power project entailing an investment of Rs 796.96 crore in Uttar Pradesh in two years, the company said on Tuesday.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday laid the foundation stone of the solar project through virtual mode.NHPC in an exchange filing stated that the Jalaun Ultra Renewable Energy Power Park at Orai in the Jalaun district of Uttar Pradesh will be developed by its subsidiary, Bundelkhand Saur Urja Ltd, at an investment of Rs 796.96 crore."The park is proposed to be constructed in 24 months from the investment approval and will generate about 2,400 MUs (million units) of electricity every year," NHPC said.NHPC, under the Ministry of Power, is the largest hydropower development organisation in India, with capabilities to undertake all the activities from conceptualisation to commissioning of hydro projects.The Faridabad-based company has also diversified into solar and wind energy development. PTI ABI SGC ABI MRStory continues below Advertisemen
 
The news published on the date March 05, 2024 02:44 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | What next for Tata Motors after demerger? is: 
 Tata Motors is ahead of the competition in electric cars and has successfully realigned its portfolio towards utility vehicles in internal combustion engines. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdShares of Tata Motors hit a new 52-week high on Tuesday after the company decided to list its passenger vehicles and commercial vehicles businesses as separate entities on the stock exchanges through a demerger process. The decision is seen as a logical progression, given the disparate nature of the business entities.Yet, after a phenomenal rally — the stock tripled in the past three years — what are future drivers of the stock's returns?Expectations are running high on the company's passenger vehicles business. It has seen a remarkable turnaround. Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) is on the profitable growth path. In India, the company is ahead of the competition in electric cars and has successfully realigned its portfolio towards utility vehicles in internal combustion engines.
 
The news published on the date March 05, 2024 02:40 PM IST with headline  Timely payment to MSMEs rule to be enforced from April 1: Finmin officials is: 
 MSMEs face mounting challenges due to delayed payments The government will implement a rule in FY25 requiring payments to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) to be made within 45 days, failing which companies will have to pay tax on the amount due.Any change to the rule is possible only in the Union Budget in July, two senior finance ministry officials said. The government is not looking at deferring the rule by one year, as sought by traders, they said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“According to the Finance Act 2023, companies need to make payments to the MSME sector within 45 days, which is slated to come into effect from April 1, 2024, else the companies cannot claim deductions on it,” a senior finance ministry official told Moneycontrol.The Finance Act, 2023, introduced Section 43B (h) in the Income Tax Act to ensure timely payments are made to MSMEs and to maintain uninterrupted cash flow. If companies fail to make payments within 45 days, the amount will be added to their profit on which tax will have to be paid.Parliament has already approved the amendment. The new rule implies that an employer, including a company, can claim a deduction for tax, duty, cess, or fee payable to the government only when it is actually paid, regardless of when it is accrued or incurred.
 
The news published on the date March 05, 2024 05:06 PM IST with headline  UK Budget: Bond vigilantes curb Jeremey Hunt's tax-cutting enthusiasm is: 
 Keeping budget giveaways to a minimum may not please Hunt's backbenchers In an ideal political world, UK Chancellor of the Exchequer Jeremy Hunt would use Wednesday's annual budget to sway voters into keeping hisembattled Conservative Party in power at the coming election by serving up a platter of tax cuts. The memory of the gilt-market meltdown triggered by then-Prime Minister Liz Truss's disastrous 2022 fiscal adventure means he's going to have to be far more prudent.Hunt will announce the latest economic and fiscal estimates from the Office for Budget Responsibility that will frame his spending and tax-raising limits. It's a self-imposed straitjacket over a five-year horizon, which will be especially limiting this time around as the economy is stuck in recession with increasing spending demands coming from all angles. But avoiding another breach of fiscal rectitude has so far been the main attribute of Hunt's tenure. He simply can’t afford to stray too far from the path of economic righteousness.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHowever, there may be one silver lining to this begrudging prudence — if it ameliorates the Bank of England's concern that fiscal stimulus risks reigniting inflation. The knock-on effects of a 10 percent rise in the minimum wage delivered in the Autumn budget statement aren’t yet clear in the BOE's determination. Keeping budget giveaways to a minimum may not please Hunt's backbenchers — but they’re not the only audience he has to placate.Any interest-rate cuts later this year from the BOE are likely to have more resonance in restoring economic confidence than modest tax cuts anyway. With over a million more homeowners having to refinance mortgages at much higher interest payments, there's a wider balance to be struck. Besides, there's been no discernable shift in voting intentions since January when Hunt's 2 percentage-point reduction in national insurance, a payroll tax, came into effect. The opposition Labour Party has maintained a consistent 20-point lead in recent opinion polls, suggesting an assured victory at the general election that will most likely be held this autumn.At best, Hunt may be able to squeeze a repeat cut in NI, which will cost around £9 billion ($11 billion). If he opts for a similar reduction to the basic rate of income tax, it would cost 50 percent more, as it affects a wider base, and likely use up all of his available fiscal headroom. Hunt, like all chancellors, delights in the theater of revealing several different types of rabbits from his magic money hat. He's preannounced a series of business-investment incentives, but no doubt there will be a few more sparklers.
 
The news published on the date March 05, 2024 01:30 PM IST with headline  Indian firms look to bet big on coal-fired power after long absence is: 
 Indian firms look to bet big on coal-fired power after long absence Private Indian firms have expressed interest in building at least 10 gigawatts (GW) of coal-fired power capacity over a decade, four sources familiar with the matter said, ending a six-year drought in significant private involvement in the sector.Adani Power, JSW Group and Essar Power are among the companies that have told India's power ministry they would be keen to expand old plants or develop stalled projects facing financial stress, according to the sources and a government presentation seen by Reuters.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe potential investments, which have not been previously reported, could cumulatively cost billions of dollars and demonstrate renewed appetite in an industry seen by many as financially unattractive. But they also threaten to undermine progress made by the world's No.3 greenhouse gas emitter in weaning its economy off carbon.Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government, which has cited energy security concerns and low per-capita emissions to defend India's coal dependence, has been trying to attract private investment to boost its coal-fired capacity by 80 GW by 2032.Coal-fired power plants currently account for half, or about 215 GW of India's total installed capacity of 430 GW, with renewables accounting for 135 GW and hydro making up 47 GW.
 
The news published on the date March 05, 2024 05:06 PM IST with headline  Big businesses hit with management idea drought is: 
 Why is so much “input” (all those professors and consultants) leading to so little “output”? Management advice is one of the world’s most successful industries. Business schools have turned into the training ground of the new elite. Management consultancies bestride the world dispensing advice. In 2023, the US alone had more than two million management consultants and almost 115,000 business professors.Yet this multibillion-dollar industry has lost the intellectual momentum and edge that it had during the 1980s and 1990s, when business schools and management consultancies reverberated with new thinking, and businesspeople hyperventilated over every new issue of the Harvard Business Review. Michael Porter redesigned strategic thinking by applying economic theory to business conundrums. Michael Hammer re-engineered the corporation for the age of smart machines. Gary Hamel and C. K. Prahalad anatomised the core competences of the corporation while Christopher Bartlett and Sumantra Ghoshal offered multinationals advice on how to restructure themselves for a new age of hyper-globalisation.Both the ideas and excitement have long since evaporated. The last flurry of new thinking arguably came in the early 2000s with the invention of Agile in the tech world (teams got into regular “scrums” to innovate and fix things) and the discovery of new markets in the emerging world (Prahalad argued that there was a “fortune at the bottom of the pyramid” if you could learn how to sell to the poor by, for example, selling small packets of washing powder). Since then, little or nothing.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe biggest new idea that is doing the rounds — stakeholder capitalism — is neither new nor, strictly speaking, an idea. In 2019, the Business Roundtable declared portentously that “for long-term success companies must deliver for all stakeholders.” But critics of Anglo-Saxon capitalism have been making similar arguments since the invention of the limited liability company in the middle of the 19th century. And the Roundtable’s statements did not address the questions that a real theory would have to confront: Who exactly is a “stakeholder”? How do you make trade-offs between different constituencies? And what does stakeholder theory mean for, say, executive pay? Most companies continued just as before, certainly when it came to executive remuneration, while sprinkling their annual reports with saccharine phrases about “purpose.”Why is so much “input” (all those professors and consultants) leading to so little “output”? Part of the answer lies in the maturity of the industry. There are only so many ideas that you can have about managing people or resources, and many of the best were generated long ago. Two management thinkers — Gary Hamel and Michele Zanini — have produced an “S” curve diagram of management innovation (based on research conducted with Julian Birkinshaw of London Business School). It takes off slowly in the 1880s with scientific management, profit sharing and R&D labs, accelerates from the 1920s to the 2000, and then flattens out.A combination of maturity and over-ripeness has gummed up the two great engines of the management industry. Business schools have imported all the defects of the surrounding academic environments — specialising in walled off sub-disciplines such as marketing, on the one hand, and windy statements about the evils of capitalism, on the other. Consultancies became so obsessed with growth that they compromised their ethics (McKinsey once advised Johnson & Johnson to turbocharge growth in the opioid market by targeting “high abuse-risk patients”) and are now trying to compensate by engaging in woke-washing (McKinsey’s various websites are compendiums of the latest woke fads).
 
The news published on the date March 05, 2024 11:10 AM IST with headline  Red Sea Crisis: Rising threat to undersea cables has serious security implications is: 
 A Globes report indicated that cables from the companies AAE-1, Seacom, EIG and TGN had been damaged by the Houthis in the Red Sea. Highlights:Undersea cables in the Red Sea carry 17 percent of global communications.Damage to undersea cables poses a serious security risk for countries depending on themRepairing cables is complicated and entails high riskControl over the cable is vital to national security, not just normal commercial communications, but also crucial intelligence flow.India needs to fortify its undersea cable management even as it faces a surging usage of data Over the past three months, there have been concerns ove
 
The news published on the date March 05, 2024 12:07 PM IST with headline  Services PMI eases to 60.6, consumer inflation hits 2-year low in Feb is: 
 India’s services Purchasing Managers’ Index has been above the crucial level of 50 for 31 months in a row. India's services activity continued to expand in February, with the HSBC Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) for the sector coming in at 60.6, data released on March 5 showed.At 60.6, the February services PMI is below the flash estimate of 62.0 released on February 22. It is, however, above the key level of 50, which separates expansion in activity from contraction, for the 31st month in a row.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe services PMI stood at 61.8 in January."India's services PMI suggests that the pace of expansion in the services sector eased in February from January. Due to a slowdown in growth in new orders and output, services companies' outlook for future business activity, while remaining strongly positive, weakened slightly," said Ines Lam, an economist at HSBC.According to S&P Global, which compiles the index, there was a "notable upturn" in demand across the service sector in February, although the rate of increase in demand was lower than in January. External demand, meanwhile, rose for the 13th month in a row and at a pace that was "among the best in the nine-and-a-half-year series history", S&P Global said.
 
The news published on the date March 05, 2024 10:09 AM IST with headline  Falling cost, government incentives to fast-track rooftop solar installations is: 
 As of December 2023, the total rooftop solar power generation capacities constitute less than 15 percent of the cumulative solar installations in the country The renewed government push for green energy can help accelerate rooftop solar installations in India. The government for rooftop solar power plants and plans to simplify the installation process for consumers. The measures come amid deceleration in solar photovoltaic (PV) costs.Prices of the PVs or solar panels, a crucial component, are in a downtrend, thanks to abundant supplies in the international market. As per Wood Mackenzie, solar PV powe
 
The news published on the date March 04, 2024 08:29 PM IST with headline  FM calls for clarity on classification-related issues under GST at the earliest is: 
 Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on March 4 asked the central and state GST officials to provide clarification on classification-related issues under the indirect tax regime at the earliest.“Sitharaman stressed that clarity on classification-related issues should be looked into at the earliest through appropriate channels. She exhorted the GST officials to engage with stakeholders to understand their concerns, enhance compliance, streamline processes, and work collaboratively towards making the tax system more transparent and efficient,” the Finance Ministry said in a statement.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSitharaman was speaking at the inaugural national conference of enforcement chiefs of the states and the central Goods and Services Tax (GST) in New Delhi. The conference aimed at facilitating understanding and streamlining operations of the tax authorities in enforcement actions undertaken by different indirect tax authorities.Minister of State for Finance Shri Pankaj Chaudhary, Revenue Secretary Sanjay Malhotra, Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) Chairman Sanjay Agarwal, GSTN CEO and other heads of enforcement like the Chairman Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), Directorate of Enforcement (ED) Director, Narcotics Control Bureau Director were also present at the conference.The GST law provides a classification framework based on Harmonized System of Nomenclature (HSN) codes for goods and services.
 
The news published on the date March 05, 2024 09:12 AM IST with headline  Tata Motors demerger: JLR in the driver's seat for PV valuations is: 
 After the Tatas resurrected the company from the throes of losses after acquiring it, JLR has grown leaps and bounds in revenue and profits In an unexpected although logical move, India’s auto behemoth Tata Motors has announced a demerger of its two main business segments of commercial vehicles (CV) and passenger vehicles (PV) which will include domestic PV, electric vehicles (EVs) and Jaguar Land Rover (JLR). There will be two separate listed entities housing these divisions and related entities, with shareholding identical to the current one of Tata Motors. That is, it will be a clean vertical demerger.Among several operational synergies and capital allocation issues talked about, this masterstroke of a move has one big takeaway for investors and stakeholders. It addresses a long pending need to unlock value in the global PV company --JLR. After all, after the Tatas resurrected the company from the throes of losses after acquiring it, JLR has grown leaps and bounds in revenue and profits.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn a recent report, Jefferies India estimated JLR’s share in Tata Motors’ revenue and earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (Ebitda) to be 67 per cent and 75 per cent respectively (FY2026 forecasts). The rest of the PV business accounts for only 14 per cent and 9 per cent respectively. Even in the new PV entity post-demerger, it is JLR’s revenue and earnings that will command valuations on the Street. The timing of the demerger also comes at an opportune moment, when JLR’s cash flows have given confidence that the entity will become debt-free. Lastly, it comes at a time when Korean automaker Hyundai is reportedly contemplating a listing in India of its domestic subsidiary Hyundai Motor India!When investors do a head to head comparison, they will have three PV companies to choose from, but Tata Motors PV business comes with a difference of being a truly global one compared to Maruti Suzuki and Hyundai Motor that are tied to the domestic market and to a smaller extent, are also exporters.In other words, the move effectively paves the way for investors to introduce the flavour of a global PV giant to their portfolio! After all, JLR taps into premium car markets in China, Europe, the UK and US, in addition to India. At another level, the demerger is also in line with Tata Motors’ earlier stated objective of creating a separate subsidiary for EVs and logically moving all the PV entities into the same.
 
The news published on the date March 04, 2024 04:40 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Private goods or public, where to draw the line? is: 
 How do we the people, the government, businesses of various stripes and the law see as public goods? Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA week ago, you may have seen the heart-tugging video of a farmer being denied entry into a Bengaluru metro station by the security staff, ostensibly because they felt his clothes were not “clean enough”. The emotive connection we have to farmers, the farmer’s stoic response to the injustice, fellow commuters arguing on his behalf – even if one did not understand Kannada, it was moving. The security person who stopped his entry lost his job apparently, but was there an unwritten policy that he was enforcing?Does the metro explicitly give right of entry to anyone who has a ticket and is not carrying any prohibited substance?If the farmer gained entry but commuters prevented him from entering the coach, how would this issue have played out? Do commuters have that right? In Mumbai suburban locals, for example, it’s not unusual to see commuters sometimes prevent a fellow traveller who’s fallen on very tough days from boarding the train. No one asks them if they have a ticket even. Do they have a right to do that?Several decades ago, Mumbai’s first mall opened in Tardeo. While it was tiny compared to today’s malls, it was a novelty and in space-starved Mumbai, it was a magnet for those looking for something different to do. But the mall had high-end brands in it and what it wanted was the moneybags who could spend and not window shoppers. It said only those with credit cards -- Internet says a mobile phone was also acceptable -- will be given entry. There was a hue and cry, understandably, over this denial of entry to what was perceived as a public destination. Eventually, the mall authorities revoked this rule. Is the mall a public place and can authorities deny entry?
 
The news published on the date March 04, 2024 02:39 PM IST with headline  S&P Global's Paul Gruenwald sees only modest headwinds for Indian economy in FY25 is: 
 S&P Paul Gruenwald, Global Chief Economist at S&P Global Ratings, saidglobal economic growth is likely to surprise on the upside and hence he sees only modest headwinds for India next fiscalIn an interview with CNBC-TV18, Gruenwald spoke about global economies like China, US and also spoke about India's economic outlook.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"India is largely a domestic lead economy. Investments are going well so growth for next couple of years will be robust," he said.He further said that global environment facing India is not bad. "Our estimate is 6.5-7 percent trend growth throughout the next decade," he added.S&P Global Ratings on November 27 increased its growth forecast for India in the current financial year (2023-24) to 6.4 percent, up from 6 percent, citing strong domestic momentum that has counteracted challenges from elevated food inflation and sluggish exports.
 
The news published on the date March 04, 2024 02:39 PM IST with headline  Explained: 'Discrepancies' in GDP data and how they affect headline growth rate is: 
 As per data released on February 29, India’s GDP growth rate surged to a six-quarter high of 8.4 percent in October-December 2023. For the second consecutive quarter, India's GDP growth rate handsomely beat all expectations, coming in at 8.4 percent in October-December 2023. This followed 7.6 percent print for July-September, which has now been revised up to 8.1 percent. Sandwiched between these two data points was the first advance estimate of growth for 2023-24 as whole, which was pegged at a higher-than-expected 7.3 percent and has now been raised to an even higher 7.6 percent.However, even as GDP growth has surged – and the reasons for it range from a favourable base to reduced subsidies – there is one component that deserves some special attention: 'discrepancies'.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: Economists focus on Q3 GVA growth to keep out noise in GDP from volatile taxes, subsidiesWhat is a discrepancy in GDP data?The GDP is calculated using two methods – income and expenditure. Any difference in the numbers arrived through the two approaches is filed under the sub-head 'discrepancies'. And this can be a rather volatile number.
 
The news published on the date March 04, 2024 12:18 PM IST with headline  Reduced VAT on ATF will spur aviation sector growth, no need to wait for GST: Ministry sources is: 
 ATF is a specialised type of fuel used by aircraft. Keeping aviation turbine fuel (ATF) outside the ambit of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) will not restrict traffic growth in the sector as 31 states and union territories have already reduced VAT on it and the five remaining ones are also likely to do so, Civil Aviation Ministry sources said.The Union Civil Aviation Ministry has been lobbying with the Finance Ministry to bring ATF into the ambit of GST. If ATF is included as a part of GST, airlines will enjoy the benefit of input tax credit which is currently not applicable as jet fuel is taxed under VAT. The GST Council had not agreed to such a move. "We are now not worried about ATF not being brought under GST. Today 31 states (and union territories) have VAT between 1-5 percent and there are only five outlier states with 20-30 percent VAT on ATF. They will also come on board,” the source told Moneycontrol.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn 2021, 12 states had VAT rates of between 1-4 percent while 24 states charged a 20-30 percent VAT on ATF. If states do not reduce VAT, it will impact traffic due to high costs, restricting the growth of the aviation sector, he said.The five states and union territories that continue to levy 20-30 percent VAT on ATF include Bihar, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, West Bengal and Assam.The VAT collections on ATF are minuscule compared to the total tax revenues of individual states. Delhi is an outlier, as 21 percent of its VAT/sales tax revenue comes from ATF.
 
The news published on the date March 04, 2024 12:00 PM IST with headline  Delhi govt presents FY25 budget with Rs 76,000 crore outlay is: 
 Delhi govt presents FY25 budget with Rs 76,000 crore outlay Delhi Finance Minister Atishi presented the budget for the financial year 2024-25 in the state assembly on Monday with an outlay of Rs 76,000 crore, and said the government is trying to realise the dram of Ram Rajya.She spoke about how Delhi has changed in the last 10 years under the AAP (Aam Aadmi Party) government.Story continues below AdvertisementIn her maiden budget speech, she proposed an allocation of Rs 16,396 crore for the education sector."This is a moment of pride that Kejriwal government is presenting its tenth budget. I am not just presenting the tenth budget but a picture of changing Delhi. Kejriwal came as a ray of hope. We are all inspired by Ram Rajya. We are working hard towards realizing the dream of Ram Rajya," Atishi said in the state assembly
 
The news published on the date March 04, 2024 12:00 PM IST with headline  India allows export of 30,000 tonnes of non-basmati white rice to Tanzania is: 
 India allows export of 30,000 tonnes of non-basmati white rice to Tanzania The government has permitted exports of 30,000 tonne of non-basmati white rice to Tanzania and 80,000 tonne of broken rice to Djibouti and Guinea Bissau.The export is permitted through National Cooperative Exports Limited (NCEL), the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) has said in a notification.Story continues below AdvertisementThough exports of non-basmati white rice have been banned since July 20, 2023 to boost domestic supply, exports are allowed on the basis of permission granted by the government to certain countries to meet their food security needs on request.Tanzania is an East African nation, while Djibouti is at the northeast coast of the African continent.Guinea-Bissau is a tropical country in West Africa. According to the notification, exports of 30,000 tonne of broken rice are allowed to Djibouti and 50,000 tonne to Guinea Bissau.India has earlier also allowed these exports to countries like Nepal, Cameroon, Cote D' Ivore, Guinea, Malaysia, Philippines, and Seychelles.NCEL is a multi-state cooperative society. It is jointly promoted by some of the leading cooperative societies in the country, namely, Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF) popularly known as AMUL, Indian Farmers Fertilizer Cooperative Ltd (IFFCO), Krishak Bharati Cooperative Ltd (KRIBHCO) and National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (NAFED)
 
The news published on the date March 04, 2024 11:57 AM IST with headline  India permits 64,400 tonnes of onion exports to UAE, Bangladesh is: 
 India permits 64,400 tonnes of onion exports to UAE, Bangladesh The government has permitted exports of 64,400 tonnes of onion to the UAE and Bangladesh through the National Cooperative Exports Ltd (NCEL), according to notifications of the commerce ministry.While export of 50,000 tonnes of onion is permitted to Bangladesh, shipments of 14,400 tonnes were allowed to the UAE.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Export of 14,400 tonnes of onions, with a quantity ceiling of 3,600 MT (metric tonnes) quarterly, to UAE through NCEL is notified," the directorate general of foreign trade (DGFT) said in a notification.DGFT is an arm of the commerce ministry, which deals with norms related to imports and exports.For exports to Bangladesh, it said that the modalities for the exports will be worked out by the NCEL in consultation with the department of consumer affairs.
 
The news published on the date March 04, 2024 11:40 AM IST with headline  Moody's raises India's 2024 GDP growth estimate to 6.8% from 6.1% is: 
 Moody's said it sees India's retail inflation at 5.2% in 2024 and 4.8% in 2025 Global ratings agency Moody's Investors Service raised India's 2024 GDP growth estimate to 6.8% from November 2023 forecast of 6.1% amid "capital spending by the government and strong manufacturing activity".Moody's also said it sees India's GDP growth at 6.4% in 2025 from earlier forecast of 6.3%.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"India's real GDP expanded 8.4% year-over-year in the fourth quarter of calendar year 2023, resulting in 7.7% growth for full-year 2023. We believe that with global headwinds fading, the Indian economy should be able to comfortably register 6-7% real GDP growth and we therefore forecast around 6.8% growth in calendar year 2024, followed by 6.4% in 2025. Capital spending by the government and strong manufacturing activity have meaningfully contributed to the robust growth outcomes in 2023. We expect policy continuity after the general election and continued focus on infrastructure development. Given the solid growth dynamics and inflation above the 4% target, we do not expect policy easing any time soon," said Moody's.In its February update of the Global Macro Outlook 2024-25, released on February 29, Moody's said, "The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will likely keep rates on hold in the coming months given strong growth and firm inflation." Moody's said it sees India's retail inflation at 5.2% in 2024 and 4.8% in 2025."Headline inflation in January eased to 5.1% from 5.7% in the month prior. Core inflation also moderated to 3.5%, down from 3.8% in December. The RBI held the repo rate steady at 6.5% in February — the same level since March 2023. Given the solid growth dynamics and inflation above the 4% target, we do not expect policy easing any time soon," said Moody's.
 
The news published on the date March 04, 2024 10:39 AM IST with headline  The finance commission should focus on increasing the size of the cake rather than its distribution is: 
 The foremost reality in Indian public finance is an imbalance -- the states have a higher responsibility to spend but inadequate means of raising revenue. Opposition leaders have demonstrated in Delhi against the way in which central tax resources are being shared with the states as also the manner in which they are being distributed between the states. Southern states, in particular, have been protesting claiming that they are being discriminated against and backward north Indian states are being favoured.It goes without saying that the country needs to be together in heart and soul for it to be strong and aspire t
 
The news published on the date March 04, 2024 10:20 AM IST with headline  Arizona Republicans want to give citizens licence to shoot migrants is: 
 Arizona Republicans produced legislation last week that would legalise shooting and killing trespassers on private land. (Source: Bloomberg/Getty Images North America) Arizona Republicans produced legislation last week that would legalise shooting and killing trespassers on private land. Essentially, they took an existing law that allows someone to shoot a home invader and extended it outside to the property line — even if the property extends for hundreds of acres.The bill, which passed the House and moved to the Arizona Senate, makes no specific mention of migrants. But everyone knows what the legislation is really about. A Feb. 27 headline in Axios got right to the point: “Arizona GOP advances bill legalizing killing undocumented migrants on suspicion of trespassing.”Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIf you want to see how the law would work in practice, you can look to rural New York, where a carload of young people looking for a friend’s house pulled into the wrong driveway last year. One of them didn’t make it out alive. The owner of the property, Kevin Monahan, addled by fear, shot 20-year-old Kaylin Gillis dead. Monahan testified that he had felt “under siege” by the appearance of cars and a motorcycle at the end of his driveway. Two shotgun blasts, one fatal, were his response.For Arizona Republicans, Monahan seems to have had cause to kill— especially if the victims belong to a disfavoured class. An Arizona rancher is awaiting trial for shooting at a group of unarmed migrants who were crossing his 170-acre ranch. One of the migrants was killed. Apparently, Republican lawmakers there want to encourage more such shootings.The primary source, and cheerleader, of this aggression masquerading as law isn’t hard to identify. He was campaigning at the Texas border thisweek.
 
The news published on the date March 04, 2024 10:12 AM IST with headline  Derivatives trade now allowed in weather, cement and 11 commodities is: 
 The expanded list of commodities that can see derivatives trading also includes processed bamboo products. The government has expanded the list of commodities permitted for derivatives trading to include weather, cement, and skimmed milk powder, according to a notification.As per the notification issued by the Ministry of Finance's Department of Economic Affairs on March 1, the Centre said it was expanding the list of commodities in consultation with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi).Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA separate notification from the economic affairs department, also dated March 1, declared the items on the list as a "contract for the purchase or sale of a right to buy or sell, or a right to buy and sell in future, such underlying good, as notified under clause (bc) of Section 2 of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956), as a derivative for the purposes of the said Act".Also Read: BSE to levy additional exposure margin on derivativesThe expanded list now includes a total of 104 items, up from 91 before. The commodities that have been added include garlic, apple, manganese, palladium (including variants such as coins and bars), processed products of bamboo, processed products of timber, bitumen, cement, skimmed milk powder, white butter, cashew, freight including trucks, waterways, railways, airways, and weather.
 
The news published on the date March 04, 2024 08:53 AM IST with headline  India counts gains at a WTO ministerial that has no winners is: 
 Commerce minister Piyush Goyal Highlights A lack of consensus on crucial issues of agriculture and fisheriesCrisis over dispute settlement mechanism continuesEurope blamed India for blocking key dealsIndia expressed sadness about some nations’ bid to obstruct outcomesTilt towards multipolarity dampening the spirit of multilateralismIt's of little surprise that the Abu Dhabi apex meeting of the WTO (World Trade Organization) is a near washout. The tone of discord and differences was palpable even before the 13th ministerial got under way. As feared, the WT
 
The news published on the date March 04, 2024 08:49 AM IST with headline  The Eastern Window: Japan searching for a balance between national security, economic ties with China is: 
 Japan is extremely vulnerable by its dependence on China in several sectors, including semiconductors HighlightsMarket slump in China is making it easy for Japan to implement a de-risking policyJapan feels vulnerable because of its economic dependence on ChinaThe private sector in Japan is not very keen about the government’s policy of de-riskingJapan is enhancing its military capacity and creating strategic alliances with other countries to counter ChinaThe slide in the value of Chinese stocks is doing more than boosting Japan’s soaring markets as investors route the flow of funds away fro
 
The news published on the date March 04, 2024 08:38 AM IST with headline  CLSA stays cautious, lowers Tata Steel, JSW Steel ratings on margin worries is: 
 CLSA kept an underperform rating on JSPL considering it's relatively better off due to margin expansion projects, even in the face of weaker industry spreads. Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × Metals are on a rally but steel stocks seem to have failed to charm CLSA. The global brokerage maintains caution on the Indian steel sector, citing a shift in profit pool towards miners, anticipation of lower spreads compared to the past, and elevated valuations for stocks despite spread compression, not reflected in consensus estimates.CLSA has downgraded Tata Steel to 'sell' from 'outperform' and cut the target price to Rs 135 from Rs 145. It also lowered the rating for JSW Steel to 'sell' from 'underperform' and revised the target to Rs 730 from Rs 810. Both the companies expected to see robust volume growth due to capacity expansion in the next two years. But, CLSA predicts lower margins due to weaker spreads.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe broker kept an 'underperform' rating on JSPL considering it's relatively better off due to margin expansion projects, even in the face of weaker industry spreads. A potential risk is a China-driven stimulus impacting its outlook. It raised the JSPL target price to Rs 840 from Rs 820 a share.CLSA warns of the impact of India's rapid blast furnace-based steel capacity expansion, foreseeing lower spreads and a shift towards raw materials. The brokerage expects FY25/26CL spread at $360 a tonne, below the 10-year average, due to surplus supply, increased exports, and domestic steel prices likely below import parity.Higher steel production may strain iron ore and coking coal supply, despite efforts to increase captive iron ore mines. India's role in the coking coal balance and rising demand (18mtpa in two years) could offset China avoiding Australian coal, it said.
 
The news published on the date March 04, 2024 08:15 AM IST with headline  MC Pro Inside Edge: HNIs find Voltas cool despite tepid numbers, panic attack for Godfather’s friends, Desi Soros’s new address, new tycoon gets visa power is: 
 - A group of HNIs appears to have taken shine to the Voltas stock of late. The stock has been steadily hitting 52-week highs despite posting a tepid set of numbers in the December quarter. On Friday, a foreign institutional investor (FII) is learnt to have dumped a million shares of Voltas, putting pressure on the stock. While the name of the seller did not show up in the bulk deals disclosures, market chatter is that it coul
 
The news published on the date March 04, 2024 09:37 AM IST with headline  Nirmala Sitharaman to inaugurate conference on combating GST evasion today is: 
 Nirmala Sitharaman to inaugurate conference of GST enforcement chiefs today Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday will inaugurate a one-day conference of enforcement chiefs of all states and central GST officers to prevent tax evasion.The conference will focus on deliberate on combating GST evasion, fake invoicing, sharing best practices, synergy among tax formations, leveraging technology and data and providing ease of doing business, according to a finance ministry statement.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"The conference will examine current challenges and delving into successful methodologies employed by both state and central enforcement authorities. Discussion on GST evasion via fake invoicing and strategising effective methods to combat it collaboratively will be on agenda," it said.Sitharaman will inaugurate the one-day conference and also deliver the keynote address. Union Minister of State for Finance, Shri Pankaj Chaudhary will also attend the conference.The one-day national conference will explore the potential of advanced technological tools and data analytics to enhance the accuracy and efficiency of enforcement efforts while striking the crucial equilibrium between facilitating a smooth business environment and implementing effective, deterrent enforcement measures.
 
The news published on the date March 02, 2024 12:16 PM IST with headline  India's extreme poverty under 3%, shows data is: 
 Ninety-four percent of the people living in extreme poverty are in rural areas and the remaining 6 percent in urban areas. Extreme poverty has been nearly eliminated from India, with less than 3 percent of the population now living below the extreme poverty line of $1.9 (PPP) a day, according to the World Poverty Clock.Around 3.4 crore people are living in extreme poverty, less than 3 percent of the population. The number was 4 crore in 2023 and 4.6 crore in the previous year, according to the World Poverty Clock. Purchasing power parity (PPP) terms is a metric which allows global comparisons of economic data.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe World Poverty Clock provides a real-time platform to monitor poverty reduction across countries. It monitors progress against Ending Extreme Poverty, which is the UN's first Sustainable Development Goal (SDG), its website says.Ninety-four percent of the people living in extreme poverty are in rural areas, and the remaining 6 percent in urban areas.The latest Consumer Expenditure Survey also said India's poverty levels dropped sharply in 2022-23, with urban poverty at 4.6 percent and rural at 7.2 percent. The data also shows real per capita consumption growth of 2.9 percent per annum since 2011-12. Rural growth at 3.1 percent, significantly higher than urban growth of 2.6 percent.
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2024 11:29 PM IST with headline  Oil rises more than 2% ahead of OPEC+ decision is: 
 Oil rises more than 2% ahead of OPEC+ decision Oil prices rose on Friday and were set for weekly gains as markets awaited an OPEC+ decision on supply agreements for the second quarter while also weighing fresh U.S., European and Chinese economic data.Brent futures for May were up $2.24, or 2.73%, at $84.15 a barrel by 12:08 p.m. EST (1334 GMT). The April Brent futures contract expired on Feb. 29 at $83.62 a barrel.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdU.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) for April rose $2.37, or 3.03%, to $80.63 a barrel.WTI is on track for a 5.4% increase this week, while following the switch in contract months Brent is around 3.1% higher than last week's settlement price."The expectation that OPEC+ is going to continue with their voluntary production cuts well into the second quarter of 2024 is the main focus on the market," said Andrew Lipow, president of Lipow Oil Associates.
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2024 11:10 PM IST with headline  Stocks climb, yields fall as data supports view of rate cuts is: 
 Stocks climb, yields fall as data supports view of rate cuts Global stock indexes rose and Treasury yields fell on Friday as weaker-than-expected U.S. data underscored investor expectations of Federal Reserve interest rate cuts in the coming months.The Institute for Supply Management (ISM) said on Friday that its manufacturing PMI fell to 47.8 last month from 49.1 in January. It was the 16th straight month that the PMI remained below 50, which indicates contraction in manufacturing.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Nasdaq was higher, a day after the index closed at a record high, spurred by gains in artificial intelligence-linked stocks such as chip designer Nvidia and others."We saw a slew of economic data this week that kind of confirmed that inflation is under control but the (U.S.) economy is probably a little stronger than expected," said Peter Tuz, president of Chase Investment Counsel in Charlottesville, Virginia."Markets like that… I'll call it the best of both worlds right now with slowing inflation and a decent economy."
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2024 09:35 PM IST with headline  Dollar gains on yen on cautious BOJ, dips against euro is: 
 Dollar gains on yen on cautious BOJ, dips against euro The dollar gained against the Japanese yen on Friday after Bank of Japan (BOJ) governor Kazuo Ueda said it was too soon to declare victory on inflation, but dipped against the euro after weaker than expected U.S. economic data.In cryptocurrencies, bitcoin held just below a more than two-year high reached on Wednesday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdUeda said it was too early to conclude that inflation was close to sustainably meeting the central bank's 2% inflation target and stressed the need to scrutinize more data on the wage outlook.That sent the yen lower, reversing a move from Thursday when BOJ board member Hajime Takata said that the central bank must consider overhauling its ultra-loose monetary policy, including an exit from negative interest rates and bond yield control.Inflation expectations and the path of BOJ policy will likely depend on negotiations between large firms and unions over wage increases.
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2024 11:28 PM IST with headline  Gold advances to 4-week peak as US rate cuts expected soon is: 
 Gold advances to 4-week peak as US rate cuts expected soon Gold started March on a positive note, with prices rising to a four-week high on Friday after data showing signs of abating inflation hardened expectations of a U.S. rate cut by June.Spot gold edged up 0.6% to $2,054.69 per ounce by 9:29 a.m. ET (1429 GMT), its highest since early February and on track for a second straight weekly rise. U.S. gold futures firmed 0.4% to $2,063.70.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSpot silver rose 0.3% to $22.73.Data on Thursday showed the annual increase in U.S. inflation in January was the smallest in nearly three years, keeping a June interest rate cut from the Federal Reserve on the table.Bart Melek, head of commodity strategies at TD Securities, said gold is seeing some upside as the market is convinced that the Fed will ease its monetary policy by mid-year, lowering the opportunity cost of bullion.
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2024 06:56 PM IST with headline  Tight language, review windows key to effective FTAs, says FM Sitharaman is: 
 The finance minister delivered the Pandit Hriday Nath Kunzru Memorial Lecture 2024 at Jawaharlal Nehru University on March 1. 'Tight' language and clauses for review are key to ensuring the free trade agreements (FTA) India enters into work effectively, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has said.Speaking at Jawaharlal Nehru University on March 1 after delivering the Pandit Hriday Nath Kunzru Memorial Lecture 2024, Sitharaman cited the example of India's trade pact with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, or ASEAN, and said it was a "classic case" of one that had gone against India.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: India-ASEAN free trade agreement ill-conceived, says Piyush Goyal"It's language makes me sit up each time with anxiety. If anything so laid-back, if anything so casual and giving away things which we are unable to retrieve even today… There is not even a review clause," Sitharaman said."ASEAN is a classic case that has gone against us. And government is unable to retract or bring them on the table and say 'come, let us have an open discussion' because they are happily benefiting. I don't blame them. It is up to us to take care of our interests," she further said, adding that the commerce ministry is in the process of reviewing it.
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2024 07:55 PM IST with headline  Govt to look at policy, fiscal support in sunrise sectors, AI, space going ahead: FM is: 
 As economic fundamentals of India are strong, the government will abide by the PSE policy where PSUs will remain in strategic sectors The Union government will look at providing fiscal and policy support to sunrise sectors, Artificial Intelligence (AI), semiconductors, deep sea and space which are going to be the priority areas going ahead, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on March 1.“We will be emphasising on some sectors which will be immensely supported going ahead. Education and health as always will always receive support from the government,” she said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSitharaman was speaking at the Pandit Hriday Nath Kunzru Memorial Lecture in Delhi's Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU).Laying down the focus areas for the government going ahead, the minister said that as the economic fundamentals of India are strong, the government will abide by the PSE policy where PSUs will remain in strategic sectors.PSUs like BSNL will be needed to provide communication in border areas. They will not lose their relevance, she said.
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2024 05:08 PM IST with headline  Business in the Week Ahead (March 4-8, 2024) is: 
 Several data points for India, UK, US and Euro Area will be announced in the upcoming week. The Indian stock markets enjoyed a bull run this past week but all indicators point to a period of consolidation ahead. A dip in the average advance-to-decline ratio below 1 for February has led to the forecast.BNP Paribas senior vice-president and capital market strategy head at Sharekhan, Gaurav Dua said though the Nifty has been touching record highs, the Midcap and Smallcap indices have been correcting which is directly affecting the advance-decline ratio.The European Centra
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2024 06:15 PM IST with headline  The Reading List: March 1, 2024 is: 
 A selection of articles and social media gems from the world of economy, business and finance. In a world strapped for time, we thought you may find it useful to have a selection of articles we read this past week. As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. Occasionally, we may stray from these subjects.These links may be from external websites we frequent o
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2024 05:01 PM IST with headline  Rupee settles 1 paisa lower at 82.90 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee settles 1 paisa lower at 82.90 against US dollar The rupee settled 1 paisa lower at 82.90 (provisional) against the US dollar on Friday amid rising crude oil prices in the overseas market and increased demand for the American currency from importers. However, a rally in equity markets and robust domestic macroeconomic data supported the local currency and restricted the fall, forex traders said.At the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 82.86 and traded in a narrow range of 82.84 and 82.91 against the greenback. The local unit finally settled at 82.90 (provisional) against the dollar, down 1 paisa from its previous close.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn Thursday, the rupee settled 2 paise higher at 82.89 against the US dollar. Meanwhile, the dollar index, which gauges the greenback's strength against a basket of six currencies, dipped marginally by 0.02 per cent to 104.07.Anuj Choudhary, Research Analyst, Sharekhan by BNP Paribas, said the US dollar rose on month-end rebalancing by importers and oil marketing companies. "We expect the rupee to trade with a slight positive bias on improved risk sentiments in the domestic markets following stellar GDP data and positive domestic equities. However, strong US dollar and elevated crude oil prices may cap the sharp upside," Choudhary said.He said the traders may remain cautious ahead of ISM manufacturing PMI and construction spending data from the US. "USD-INR spot price is expected to trade in a range of Rs 82.60 to Rs 83.10." Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, surged 1.26 per cent to USD 82.94 per barrel.
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2024 04:49 PM IST with headline  Africa's Currency Woes: Decline of Nigeria’s naira points to a bigger problem in the continent is: 
 Africa’s rapidly depreciating currencies are eroding households’ savings. On Tuesday, Nigeria’s central bank announced a supersized 400-basis-point rate hike in the fight against inflation and its depreciating currency. Hard to say if this move will stop the naira’s depreciation. Since January 2022, it has declined by 74 percent against the US dollar. And Nigeria is not alone. Other African countries have had a rough go over the past two years. The Ghanaian cedi, Kenyan shilling and South African rand are all down over the same period.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAfrica’s rapidly depreciating currencies are eroding households’ savings, increasing costs for businesses and deterring long-term foreign investment at a time when the region’s economies are seriously struggling. For policymakers, the only sustainable interventions ought to be aggressive export promotion and free floats to let markets determine currency price levels.Depreciation episodes create both economic and political challenges for officials. On the economic front, reliance on imports of food and fast-moving consumer goods means that currency depreciation translates into rising inflation. It also increases the cost of servicing foreign debt, forcing governments to increase domestic borrowing and crowd out private lending. Meanwhile, foreign investors worried about currency risk and repatriating profits have rushed to wind down equity and debt positions, putting further pressure on weakened currencies.On the political front, policy adjustments in many African countries have not always been timely — partially because no politician wants to inflict further pain on ailing consumers and businesses. For example, Nigeria avoided floating the naira ahead of its presidential elections last year, after which monetary policymakers had to contend with the ramifications of other reforms — like the unpopular removal of fuel subsidies. Because of the slowness in monetary tightening, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) projects the naira will lose another 35 percent of its value in 2024. Meanwhile, inflation in Nigeria is at a 27-year high of more than 28 percent.
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2024 06:15 PM IST with headline  February GST collections at Rs 1.68 lakh crore, up 12.5% YoY is: 
 GST News Live India collected Rs 1.68 lakh crore in goods and services tax (GST) in February, 12.5 percent more than the year-ago period, the finance ministry said on March 1.At Rs 1.68 lakh crore, the February GST collection is 3.3 percent lower than the Rs 1.72 lakh crore in January, now revised upwards to Rs 1.74 lakh crore.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe latest GST figure, which has come in above the Rs 1.5-lakh-crore mark for the 12th month in a row, takes the average monthly collection in 2023-24 to Rs 1.67 lakh crore.Monthly GST collections have risen over the years. From averaging under Rs 1 lakh crore per month in 2017-18 - the indirect tax regime's first year - collections rose rapidly after the pandemic-hit 20202-21 to average Rs 1.51 lakh crore in 2022-23.
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2024 04:33 PM IST with headline  A Fed held hostage by data is asking for trouble is: 
 Fed Chair Jay Powell. It’s right for economic data to influence the Federal Reserve’s policy approach. Yet, there is an important distinction between being informed by the numbers and being held hostage by them — particularly for an institution whose tools operate on the economy with a lag. Indeed, the Fed’s often-repeated mantra of “ data dependency” risks causing another mistake.Don’t get me wrong; high-frequency inputs are important in any assessment of economic conditions and policy responses. They give you a sense of how the economy is functioning. They should inform and influence how officials think but not in the absence of a strategic view of our economic prospects.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn today’s economy, an excessive focus on the numbers tips the balance of risks toward keeping interest rates too restrictive for too long, unduly increasing the probability of output loss, higher unemployment and financial instability.The Fed’s current phase of undue data dependency originated with its analytical misreading of inflation as “transitory” back in 2021. By “looking through” multiple indicators of rising price pressures, officials fell behind in their inflation battle and were forced to aggressively raise interest rates. Repeated forecasting errors and poor communication added to the central bank’s woes.Careful not to make another analytical mistake, policymakers pivoted from “looking through” data to making it their central focus — as is obvious from the number of times it comes up in officials’ remarks. Indeed, this dependency has become deterministic in the Fed’s decision making and communications, and has contributed to uneven signaling, reactive measures, sudden pivots and unnecessary market volatility.
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2024 02:49 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Jaw-dropping growth is: 
 The new GDP and GVA numbers imply a big slowdown in growth in the current quarter. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdShould the RBI’s research department stop its so-called ‘nowcasts’? After all, its nowcast of GDP growth for the third quarter of 2023-24 was 7 percent, and it came in at a much higher 8.4 percent. The median estimate of the RBI’s professional forecasters for Q3 GDP growth was even further off the mark, at 6.5 percent. In fact, growth was far stronger than in the wildest dreams of economists, forget about their estimates. This is not just a positive surprise; it is a jaw-dropping one.To be fair, though, the new growth numbers are partly the result of revisions, re-revisions and re-re-revisions in earlier GDP data, which have changed the growth numbers and sent estimates haywire. But the fact remains that the real GDP as well as the real GVA numbers for 2023-24 have all been revised upwards. The economy is certainly doing better than almost everybody thought.Or is it? The nominal GDP as well as the GVA figures are lower than in the first advance estimates.
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2024 01:23 PM IST with headline  How Himanta swung the Tata Semiconductor Assembly and Test (TSAT) project to Assam is: 
 Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma convinced the Tatas and the Government of India to take the risk. During liberalisation, India’s private sector industrial activities were limited to Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Delhi and its adjoining regions in Western Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, terrorism-affected Punjab and the ever-declining West Bengal. Since then, India added at least four new investment destinations Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh (now Telangana) in the South; Odisha in the East and; lately Uttar Pradesh in the North.On February 29, Assam, in Northeast India, claimed its inclusion in the list, as the Centre approved the production-linked incentive (PLI) to Tata Semiconductor Assembly and Test Pvt Ltd (TSAT) for setting up a Rs 27,000 core semiconductor assembling and testing unit, near Guwahati.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAccording to the government press release, TSAT is developing indigenous advanced semiconductor packaging technologies including flip chip and ISIP (integrated system in package). The plant will manufacture 48 million chips per day for use in Automotive, electric vehicles, consumer electronics, telecom, mobile phones, etc.For Assam, A Major BreakthroughThe importance of the investment can be understood from a simple fact: The Union cabinet approved a total of three semiconductor projects on Thursday and two went to the upcoming semiconductor hub of Gujarat, where Micron is already building a plant.
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2024 02:17 PM IST with headline  Why investors should be wary of 'mergers of equals' is: 
 Ninety-five per cent of mergers of equals are in the same industry, with financials, energy, consumer discretionary and healthcare the most common sectors. Adam ParkerThe writer is founder and chief executive of Trivariate ResearchDespite a modest increase in deal announcements recently and some increasing chatter about deals in the works, total mergers and acquisition activity has been muted for much of the past two years.We attribute slowing activity to a decelerating US economy and uncertainty about the Federal Reserve’s stance on interest rates. Moreover, the regulatory environment remains a burden. In such uncertain macroeconomic regimes, management teams can be tempte
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2024 01:50 PM IST with headline  China: Huawei's success and struggles offer a blueprint for Comac's aircraft sales is: 
 The narrow-body model, designed for short and medium-distance routes, has been embraced by local airlines including China Eastern Airlines Corp. (Source: Bloomberg) China’s plans to challenge Boeing Co and Airbus SE in the global passenger-jet market face plenty of hurdles as the nation tries to establish its credibility in a complex, highly interconnected sector. These challenges are not insurmountable.Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China Ltd, better known as Comac, is the state-owned maker of planes. At the Singapore Air Show last week, it showed off its C919 as a rival to Airbus’s A320 and Boeing’s 737. The narrow-body model, designed for short and medium-distance routes, has been embraced by local airlines including China Eastern Airlines Corp. An order announced at the show by China’s Tibet Airlines Co for 40 of those aircraft shows it’s gaining traction, but only at home. It needs more foreign buyers if Comac is to establish its credibility and ensure long-term viability.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdNow would be the perfect time to make its move. Recent safety concerns at Boeing, ranging from avionics to structural integrity, have overshadowed the US company’s storied history. A decade earlier, Europe’s Airbus was in the spotlight after fatal crashes were linked to faulty sensors and systems.The overseas success of communications-equipment supplier Huawei Technologies Co shows an unproven upstart can penetrate highly-entrenched industries, as long as the company has the right ingredients and strategy. That it was subsequently banned from many international markets indicates it have may have become too good, triggering backlash among leaders amid rising trade and political tensions.Founded in 1987, the unlisted Shenzhen-based company gained traction in the 1990s by building telephone switches to meet growing demand from domestic government and private enterprises. By the end of the decade, Beijing had a policy of boosting home-grown businesses over foreign rivals.
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2024 11:05 AM IST with headline  Boards must drive sustainability as a catalyst for growth is: 
 By embedding sustainability into corporate strategy, boards can unlock value and fortify resilience HighlightsAs CEOs increasingly integrate ESG considerations into corporate strategies, boards are urged to follow suit, recognising their pivotal role in steering companies toward sustainable prosperityBy embedding sustainability into corporate strategy, boards can unlock value and fortify resilienceBoards must re-evaluate their approach to integrating sustainability into the agenda, adopting a governance model that facilitates strategic thinkingSustainability stands as one of the paramount challenges of our time, encompassing climate change, social equity, and environmental stewardship. Acknowledging this imperative, policymakers
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2024 11:17 AM IST with headline  India's February manufacturing PMI rises to 56.9, highest in 5 months is: 
 India’s manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index has been above the crucial 50 level for 32 months in a row. India's manufacturing activity continued to expand in February with the HSBC Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) for the sector coming in at 56.9, data released on March 1 showed.At 56.9, the February manufacturing PMI is above the flash estimate of 56.7 released on February 22 and is the highest in five months. It is also above the key level of 50, which separates expansion in activity from contraction, for the 32nd month in a row.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"The HSBC final India Manufacturing PMI indicates that production growth continued to be strong, supported by both domestic and external demand," said Ines Lam, an economist at HSBC."Manufacturing firms' margins improved as input price inflation slipped to the lowest since July 2020. Buoyed by robust demand and improving profit margins, manufacturers have an optimistic outlook about future business conditions," Lam added.
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2024 10:11 AM IST with headline  GDP growth may hit a 5-quarter low of 5.9% in Jan-Mar 2024: NSO data is: 
 India’s growth could end up making a rapid switch from the fast lane to the slow lane. India's GDP may end up growing by just 5.9 percent in January-March 2024 – the lowest in five quarters – shows data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO), under the statistics ministry, on February 29.In its second advance estimate of GDP for 2023-24, the ministry pegged the current year's growth rate at 7.6 percent, 30 basis points higher than its first advance estimate of 7.3 percent. It also made upward revisions to the GDP growth rate for the first two quarters: from 7.8 percent to 8.2 percent for April-June 2023 and from 7.6 percent to 8.1 percent for July-September 2023.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdGiven that the growth in October-December 2023 came in at 8.4 percent, smashing all expectations, calculations show that the fourth-quarter growth rate must slump to 5.9 percent for the second advance estimate of 7.6 percent for the full-year to be met. And economists think this could actually happen."Going forward, we expect real GDP growth to ease towards 6 percent in Q4, which is in line with the CSO (Central Statistical Office) forecast, leading to 7.6 percent growth in 2023-24," said Nikhil Gupta, chief economist at Motilal Oswal Financial Services.
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2024 09:57 AM IST with headline  Explained: Why India's Q3 FY24 GDP growth touched 8.4% is: 
 Growth in manufacturing significantly impacts GDP growth. India has hit the ball out of the park with its Q3 FY24 GDP growth surpassing all estimates. The country’s gross domestic product (GDP) for the October-December quarter grew 8.4 percent, data released by the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MOSPI) on February 29 showed.The Q3 FY24 GDP growth is higher than the previous quarter’s 8.1 percent expansion, and nearly double the lower base of 4.3 percent recorded in the same quarter of the previous year. The 8.4 percent Q3 GDP growth rate is also the highest in seven quarters.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso read: India's GDP growth accelerates to 8.4% in Q3; FY24 growth pegged at 7.6%As a result, the statistics ministry now expects the country’s full-year (2023-24) GDP growth to touch 7.6 percent.Several factors contributed to GDP growth touching 8.4 percent in Q3 FY24.
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2024 09:25 AM IST with headline  Novelis IPO marks Hindalco’s evolution into a global metals giant is: 
 Novelis IPO With Novelis Inc, its American subsidiary, filing for an initial public offering (IPO) with the US Securities and Exchange Commission, the parent company, Hindalco Industries, has come full circle. In February 2007, when the Aditya Birla group’s flagship metals firm bought 100 percent of the US company for $6 billion, at a substantial premium to its market price as well as well above the price offered by two other rival bidders. Many analysts reckoned it had overpaid
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2024 09:27 AM IST with headline  It’s time for a radical new approach to school education is: 
 - HighlightsThe economic argument offered by private prisons: that they could house more prisoners at a lower cost than the government could has found wide acceptance in developed countriesCould there be learnings for the education sector in this approach?Learning outcomes paint a horror tale. About a quarter of students in the 14-18 age group could not read a Grade II level text fluently in their regional language and more than half struggled with divisionBetween government schools, affordable privat
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2024 09:39 AM IST with headline  Economists focus on Q3 GVA growth to keep out noise in GDP from volatile taxes, subsidies is: 
 Gross Value Added is the difference between GDP and net indirect taxes. Economists are seemingly focusing on the growth in Gross Value Added (GVA) — and not the GDP growth figure — in the third quarter of 2023-24 to better understand the fundamentals of the Indian economy, with massive volatility in the government's net tax collections adding "noise" to the overall picture.Data released on February 29 showed India's GDP growth surged to a six-quarter high of 8.4 percent in October-December, way higher than any economist's estimates. The GVA growth was nearly 2 percentage points lower at 6.5 percent and broadly in line with expectations.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdGVA is the value generated by a producer of goods and services and is a measure of the contribution to GDP made by an individual producer or sector. It is computed by subtracting net indirect tax collections — or tax collections after adjusting for subsidy payouts — from the GDP. As such, when net indirect taxes figure is positive — or indirect tax collections are more than subsidy paid out — the GDP is greater than the GVA.In the October-December period, the growth in net indirect taxes nearly trebled from the previous quarter to 32 percent year-on-year (YoY), the most since posting an increase of 37.6 percent in the first quarter of 2022-23.
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2024 08:51 AM IST with headline  Q3 FY24 GDP: Is it an acceleration or slowdown in growth? is: 
 Is there evidence supporting a slowdown in growth in Q4 relative to Q3? India’s macros in general, and its GDP growth in particular, have been the toast of the global macro scenario. The NSO had pegged the Indian GDP expansion in H1 FY2024 at a robust and envy-inducing 7.7 percent. This had benefited from the recovery after Covid and also boosted by a favourable base. After an uneven monsoon and amidst signs of deceleration, optical or otherwise, in a number of non-agri indicators, we had anticipated a slowdown in the GDP and GVA growth to 6.0 percent in Q3 FY2024.On Feb 29, 2024, the NSO released the first estimate of growth for Q3 FY2024, revised data for the previous two quarters and also updated its forecast for the full year FY2024.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA Curious DivergenceHere comes the dilemma. As anticipated, India's GVA growth slowed in Q3 FY2024 to 6.5 percent from a revised 8.2 percent in Q1 FY2024 and 7.7 percent in Q2 FY2024, although the extent of the moderation was not as sharp as what we had feared. Agricultural output contracted after an uneven monsoon, and industrial growth slowed, whereas the expansion in services improved, in line with our expectations.However, GDP growth rose to a robust 8.4 percent in Q3 FY2024 from an upward revised 8.2 percent in Q1 FY2024 and 8.1 percent in Q2 FY2024! Private final consumption expenditure growth rose but remained lacklustre at 3.5 percent in Q3 FY2024. This corroborates the anecdotal evidence that rural demand is cautious after an unfavourable monsoon, while urban demand is healthy but uneven.
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2024 08:40 AM IST with headline  MC Pro Inside Edge: Fund managers drive hard bargain in Swan QIP, new tycoon on the block, swarm of HNIs, take it or leave it say merchant bankers  is: 
 With too many HNIs on the hunt for ideas in the unlisted space, merchant bankers have the upper hand Swansong?It seems to be turning out to be too much of a good thing for fund managers in the Swan Energy stock. The company raised a good sum of money, but at a valuation lower than the floor price the bankers had set for the qualified institutional placement. Given the craze for the stock over the last few months, one would have thought that the issue would go through at a premium to the floor price. Still
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2024 08:18 AM IST with headline  GDP data: A positive growth surprise, powered by investment even as consumption lags is: 
 The external sector drag on growth is also expected to ease over the second half of the year, with exports growth holding steady and imports growth slowing down HighlightsReal GDP growth at 8.4 percent in Q3, far exceeding estimatesSlowest growth in private consumption in almost two decades, barring the pandemic yearFarm sector growth in 2023-24 pegged at 0.7 percent year-on-year, dragging down rural demandNon-farm, non-government GVA growth is expected to stay almost flat at 8.4% yoy in Q3 compared to 8.7% in Q2, underlining the relative strength in urban demandIndustrial activity maintained a strong momentum, while services sector activit
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2024 08:45 AM IST with headline  Market breadth indicator forecasts consolidation as advance-decline ratio dips is: 
 The average advance to decline ratio, which compares the number of rising stocks to falling stocks, in February hit below 1 for the first time in eleven month The market is on a rally with the indices scaling newer highs a number of times since last April, but a popular breadth analyser indicates a period of consolidation ahead. The forecast is based on a dip in the average advance-to-decline ratio, which compares the number of rising stocks to falling stocks, in February below 1 for the first time in 11 months.The average advance-to-decline ratio in February stood at 0.95 times. This level was seen last in March 2023 and since April, it stayed above 1 riding on robust economic fundamentals and participation of foreign investors.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdGaurav Dua, senior vice-president and capital market strategy head at Sharekhan by BNP Paribas, said the broader market sees a much-needed cooling off since the beginning of February 2024. Though the Nifty has managed to record a fresh all-time high, the Midcap and Smallcap indices been correcting which has resulted in a subdued participation on the way up from the broader market and thus directly impacting the advance-decline ratio.Similar reading was recorded during the September-November 2023 period when the broader market saw a similar decline, while the Nifty continued to inch higher, Dua said.
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2024 07:29 AM IST with headline  Barclays hikes India GDP growth forecast for FY24 to 7.8% after blowout Q3 data is: 
 Barclays had expected India’s GDP to grow 6.7 percent in October-December 2023. Barclays has raised its GDP growth forecast for India for 2023-24 by a massive 110 basis points to 7.8 percent, while the bank's economists also revised upward their prediction for 2024-25 by 50 basis points to 7 percent. One basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point.The huge improvement in the growth outlook for India by Barclays comes after the release of blowout GDP numbers for October-December 2023 on February 29, with the statistics ministry estimating an astonishing 8.4 percent growth in the economy. This was sharply higher than the general expectation of a 6.5 percent growth rate and 6.7 percent by Barclays.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: CEA says case for global agencies to raise view on India's potential growth to 7%, if not more"Considering today's print and strong momentum put up by growth numbers across Q1-Q3 of 2023-24, we raise our 2023-24 GDP growth forecast to 7.8 percent with upside risks given Q1-Q3 2023-24 growth is currently averaging 8.2 percent," Rahul Bajoria, managing director and head of EM Asia (ex-China) Economics at Barclays, said in a note late on February 29."We also raise our forecast for 2024-25 GDP growth to 7.0 percent from 6.5 percent earlier. We expect the steady domestic growth momentum to continue, supported by continued increases in government capex, much anticipated rising private investment, and monetary easing," he added.
 
The news published on the date March 01, 2024 12:01 AM IST with headline  Gold hits 1-month high as dollar dips after US PCE data is: 
 Gold hits 1-month high as dollar dips after US PCE data Gold scaled a one-month high on Thursday as the dollar slipped after U.S. inflation data came in line with expectations, with traders' attention turning to further commentary from Federal Reserve officials for cues on interest rate cuts.Spot gold was up 0.5% at $2,045.59 per ounce as of 12:59 p.m. ET (1759 GMT). U.S. gold futures gained 0.6% at $2,054.40.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSilver rose 1% to $22.67 per ounce, platinum was flat at $878.73, and palladium ticked 1.1% higher to $939.75."Gold bulls just needed an excuse to buy, and they found it," with the data only on consensus after recent strong inflation readings, said Tai Wong, a New York-based independent metals analyst, adding gold could face technical resistance around $2,065.Data showed the U.S. personal consumption expenditures price index rose by 0.3% in January, while the core PCE price index gained 0.4%, pressuring the dollar, which makes gold cheaper for investors holding other currencies. [USD/] [US/]
 
The news published on the date February 29, 2024 11:59 PM IST with headline  Oil rises as US data keeps June rate cut prospect, Gaza ceasefire unlikely is: 
 Oil rises as US data keeps June rate cut prospect, Gaza ceasefire unlikely Oil prices edged higher on Thursday as US inflation data reinforced expectations for a June cut to interest rates, supporting the demand outlook, while comments from US President Joe Biden indicating an ongoing Gaza conflict boosted supply sentiment.Brent crude futures for April delivery, which expires on Thursday, rose 9 cents to $83.77 a barrel by 11:55 a.m. EST (1655 GMT). The more active May contract, was up 58 cents at $82.73. The April US crude contract, rose 65 cents to $79.19 per barrel.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdGlobal benchmark Brent has hovered comfortably above the $80 mark for three weeks, with the Middle East conflict having only a modest impact on crude flows.However, the conflict shows few signs of abating, with both Israel and Hamas playing down prospects for a truce in their war in Gaza. Qatari mediators have said the most contentious issues remain unresolved.President Joe Biden said the US was checking reports of Israeli troops firing on people waiting for food aid in Gaza and that he believes the deadly incident will complicate talks on a ceasefire.
 
The news published on the date February 29, 2024 11:55 PM IST with headline  Dollar dips as US inflation meets expectations is: 
 Dollar dips as US inflation meets expectations The dollar fell on Thursday after data showed that US inflation was in line with economists' expectations in January, easing concerns that price pressures could be seeing a renewed uptick.The yen gained after a policymaker hinted at the need to exit ultra-easy policies, while bitcoin held near a more than two-year high reached on Wednesday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdUS prices picked up in January, but the annual increase in inflation was the smallest in nearly three years, keeping a June interest rate cut from the Federal Reserve on the table."The worst fears of market participants have been largely alleviated by this print," said Karl Schamotta, chief market strategist at Corpay in Toronto. "The big issue here was that the CPI print did kind of put the fear of god into a lot of traders – there was a lot of concern that underlying pressures could turn out to be hotter than anticipated."The dollar index had hit a three-month high after consumer price inflation data (CPI) released on February 13 showed prices accelerated more than expected in January.
 
The news published on the date February 29, 2024 09:35 PM IST with headline  Q3 GDP: CEA Nageswaran says case for global agencies to raise view on India's potential growth to 7%, if not more is: 
 The government’s top economist was speaking to reporters from Brazil after the release of the GDP growth data for October-December 2023. The latest GDP growth print and the country's continued out-performance is making a case for international organisations to raise their estimates of India's potential growth rate to 7 percent or even higher, Chief Economic Adviser V Anantha Nageswaran has said.Speaking to reporters virtually from Brazil, where he is part of the Indian delegate for the G20 meetings, Nageswaran said on February 29 that the structural transformation that is taking place in India should be recognised.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"The actual performance of the economy has continued to defy expectations and do better than what many had projected, underscoring the fact that a structural transformation of the economy is indeed underway – both in terms of physical infrastructure and digital infrastructure as well as the inclusion agenda boosting the purchasing power of Indian households which we saw in the household consumption expenditure survey data," Nageswaran said."So there is a case for international agencies to reappraise their estimate of potential GDP growth in India closer to 7 percent, if not above," he added.Nageswaran's comments came immediately after the statistics ministry said India's GDP growth rate surged to a six-quarter high of 8.4 percent in the final quarter of 2023, comfortably beating all expectations. A Moneycontrol survey had shown economists expected growth to slow down to 6.5 percent in October-December 2023 from 7.6 percent. Instead, growth rose to 8.4 percent from July-September's revised estimate of 8.1 percent.
 
The news published on the date February 29, 2024 09:21 PM IST with headline  Q3 FY24 GDP: Robust economic growth is poised to boost investor confidence is: 
 India’s economy is resilient despite heightened global headwinds A strong GDP growth at 8.4 percent (y-o-y) in Q3, FY24 and at 7.6 percent (y-o-y) for the full year FY24 shows the remarkable resilience of the Indian economy despite increased global headwinds and climate-related risks. Interestingly the primary drivers of GDP growth during FY24 so far have been the manufacturing and construction sectors.Growth revival of the manufacturing sector during the second and third quarters of FY24 is truly encouraging, as the sector had stayed in a low growth trap for almost seven-eight quarters before Q2, FY24. The index of industrial production (IIP) statistics shows a sustained growth momentum during Apr-Dec, FY24, for various sectors like motor vehicles, trailers, transport equipment, machinery manufacture, electrical equipment, fabricated metal products, basic metals, non-metallic mineral products, rubber and plastic products, pharmaceuticals, refined petroleum products, and food products including beverages. This means the manufacturing sector has started responding to the strong capex push given by the Central Government during the post-pandemic period.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn sequential terms (quarter-on-quarter) however, three sectors – manufacturing, electricity and services – have posted deceleration in growth, which could be attributed to the waning of festival effect and the late onset of winter, which impacted the demand for electricity.The expenditure side of the GDP statistics shows a muted year-on-year growth in private consumption expenditure, which is offset by a strong growth in overall investment spending even during Q3, FY24. However, the Government’s committed efforts to achieve “fiscal consolidation” are clearly visible during Q3, FY24 as there was a sharp quarter-on-quarter reduction in the government’s consumption spending (-10.9 percent) as well as capital spending (-3.3 percent).The fact that India’s economy has been doing well in the global context is also reflected in the trade components of GDP statistics. While exports growth (in real terms) has slowed drastically during the first nine months of FY24 on the back of lower global demand, imports growth has not slowed much. As the ‘import intensity’ of Indian manufacturing activity is very high, imports have not slowed much in real terms.
 
The news published on the date February 29, 2024 07:44 PM IST with headline  Sizzling 8.4 percent GDP growth in Q3 shows economy firmly in investment mode is: 
 The Indian economy is going great guns When factories wheel out goods at a faster pace than a comparable previous period, it is usually seen as a sign that the economy is on the bend.The estimates of national income for the second quarter of 2023-24, put out by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on February 29, show that India’s real or inflation-adjusted gross domestic product (GDP) growth sizzled at 8.4 percent during the third quarter (October- December 2023), higher than the previous quarter’s 8.1 percent expansion, and nearly double the 4.3 percent growth the economy recorded in the same quarter of the previous year.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe manufacturing sector galloped at 11.6 percent during the quarter almost matching the previous quarter’s 14.4 percent growth.The standout piece of data, however, is on the investment side. Gross fixed capital formation (GFCF), which is a proxy to measure investment activity in the broader economy and accounting for about a third of India’s GDP (32.4 percent), grew 10.5 percent during October-December this year, standing shoulder-to-shoulder to the previous quarter’s growth of 11.6 percent, and sharply higher than the 5 percent growth in GFCF in the third quarter of 2022-23. This appears to be a clear sign that the economy is in an investment mode.The worry line, however, could be on the government expenditure side. Government final consumption expenditure (GFCE) fell 3.2 percent during the quarter, from a 13.8 percent growth during the second quarter (July-September), and also far lower than the 7.1 percent growth during October-December of 2022-23.
 
The news published on the date February 29, 2024 09:21 PM IST with headline  India's GDP growth accelerates to 8.4% in Q3; FY24 growth pegged at 7.6% is: 
 The GDP growth rate of 7.6 percent for Q2 FY24 has now been revised up to 8.1 percent. India's gross domestic product (GDP) grew 8.4 percent in the December quarter, data released by the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation on February 29 showed, blowing all expectations out of the water.A survey of economists by Moneycontrol estimated Q3 GDP growth to slow down to a three-quarter low of 6.5 percent from 7.6 percent in the three months ended September 30, 2023. The estimate for growth in the second quarter has now been revised up to 8.1 percent, while that for the first quarter has been revised higher to 8.2 percent from 7.8 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAs a result, the statistics ministry now expects the full-year GDP growth to be even higher than its unexpectedly high first advance estimate of 7.3 percent. The second advance estimates now peg GDP growth at 7.6 percent for 2023-24 even as economists had expected it to be lowered to 6.9 percent.At 8.4 percent, the latest quarterly GDP growth rate is the highest in six quarters. Last time India's economy grew at a faster rate was in the first quarter of 2022-23, when it grew by 13.1 percent, now revised down to 12.8 percent.
 
The news published on the date February 29, 2024 05:23 PM IST with headline  India's core sector growth hits 15-month low of 3.6% in January is: 
 In January 2023, India’s eight core sectors – which include coal, crude oil, natural gas, refinery products, fertiliser, cement, electricity, and steel – had grown by 9.7 percent. India's eight core sectors posted a growth of 3.6 percent in January, according to data released by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry on February 29.At 3.6 percent, the growth in India's eight key infrastructure industries - coal, crude oil, steel, cement, electricity, fertilisers, refinery products and natural gas – in the first month of 2024 is the lowest in 15 months.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn December 2023, core sector growth had printed in at 3.8 percent. The commerce ministry, on February 29, revised this figure up to 4.9 percent.The output of the eight core sectors had grown by 9.7 percent in January 2023.In April 2023-January 2024, the output of India's eight core industries was 7.7 percent higher year-on-year as against 8.3 percent in the first 10 months of 2022-23.
 
The news published on the date February 29, 2024 04:25 PM IST with headline  Rupee settles flat at 82.91 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee settles flat at 82.91 against US dollar The rupee on Thursday settled flat at 82.91 (provisional) against the US dollar, as the support from lower crude oil prices and a weak greenback against major crosses overseas was offset by sustained foreign capital outflows. Besides, a positive trend in equity markets provided a cushion to the domestic unit, forex traders said. Besides, a positive trend in equity markets provided a cushion to the domestic unit, forex traders said.Market participants were also cautious ahead of the domestic GDP data to be released later in the day, they added. At the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 82.88 and touched the intra-day low of 82.94 against the greenback. The local unit finally settled at its previous day's closing level of 82.91 (provisional) against the dollar.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn Wednesday, the rupee settled 2 paise lower at 82.91 against the US dollar. The dollar index, which gauges the greenback's strength against a basket of six currencies, declined 0.19 per cent to 103.78.Anuj Choudhary Research Analyst, Sharekhan by BNP Paribas, said the Indian rupee was under pressure due to selling by foreign institutional investors and dollar demand from importers. However, positive domestic markets and a weak US dollar cushioned the downside. He said the US dollar declined as the US GDP growth estimate edged lower while other macroeconomic data were also disappointing."We expect the rupee to trade with a slight negative bias on dollar demand from OMCs (oil marketing companies) and importers. However, a weak dollar and positive domestic as well as European markets may support the rupee at lower levels. Traders may take cues from India's fiscal deficit and GDP data," he said, adding that "USD-INR spot price is expected to trade in a range of Rs 82.70 to Rs 83.15". Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, declined 0.17 per cent to USD 83.54 per barrel.
 
The news published on the date February 29, 2024 04:48 PM IST with headline  India's April-January fiscal deficit widens to Rs 11.03 lakh cr, 64% of FY24 target is: 
 The central government has set itself a medium-term target of reducing the fiscal deficit to under 4.5 percent of GDP by 2025-26. The Central government's fiscal deficit widened to Rs 11.03 lakh crore in April 2023-January 2024 from Rs 9.82 lakh crore in April-December, data released by the Controller General of Accounts showed on February 29.At Rs 11.03 lakh crore, the fiscal deficit for the first 10 months of the current financial year accounts for 63.6 percent of the revised estimate of Rs 17.35 lakh crore. The original budget estimate was Rs 17.87 lakh crore.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: Budget and its numbers – A breakdown of key estimates for FY25The fiscal deficit in April 2022-January 2023 was 67.8 percent of the target for 2022-23.
 
The news published on the date February 29, 2024 02:56 PM IST with headline  Renewable growth in India expected to fall short of PM Modi target is: 
 Renewable growth in India expected to fall short of PM Modi target India’s solar and wind deployment is forecast to jump more than 30% in 2024, a pace still not fast enough to meet its clean energy goal of 500 gigawatts by the end of this decade.Capacity in 2024 is expected to rise by a record 16.7 gigawatts from nearly 13 gigawatts last year, driven by falling solar module prices and increasing clean energy procurement by industries, BloombergNEF said in a note on Thursday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRenewable adoption has been dampened by factors including policy uncertainty, solar import restrictions and grid constraints.At the end of 2023, India had 188 GW, which means it would need to add 44GW in each of the next seven years to reach Modi’s target.Electricity demand, which is forecast to rise faster than in any other major economy, has already prompted India to announce a major expansion of its coal-fired power fleet.
 
The news published on the date February 29, 2024 02:56 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Reliance-Disney deal: A box office hit? is: 
 Disney Hotstar was facing growth challenges in India’s entertainment market and was struggling to salvage its India dreams. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWithout doubt, the blockbuster $8.5-billion Reliance-Disney deal has shaken the media and entertainment industry (M&E) in more ways than one. It's not only the eye-popping size of the deal, but also the impact of it on competitors and other stakeholders such as advertisers and integrated telecom service providers, which will be enormous.However, markets had an inkling of the mega deal a few months ago when media reports suggested that the two giants were in talks. In fact, Disney’s Star India lost big time as home-grown Reliance’s Jio bagged the digital rights to the Indian Premium League. In addition, Disney Hotstar was facing growth challenges in India’s entertainment market and was struggling to salvage its India dreams.For the Ambani-owned Reliance group, size does matter. Time and again and across businesses from energy to telecom to entertainment, it has aimed at the numero uno leadership position. The Reliance group will own majority equity stake through various group companies, offering viewers over 100 channels and two live streaming platforms (read here for details). In revenue terms, the JV will have Rs 25,000 crore of revenue, with others such as Zee Entertainment, Times, Sony and Sun TV way below in comparison, with revenues ranging from Rs 7,000-8,000 crore.
 
The news published on the date February 29, 2024 02:55 PM IST with headline  Exclusive: MCA to complete probe into Hero MotoCorp, MG Motor by June is: 
 The two-wheeler manufacturer has also come under the scrutiny of ED. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) plans to fast-track and conclude its probe into corporate governance breaches, including discrepancies in financial accounts and funds diversion, by automobile manufacturers Hero MotoCorp and MG Motor India by June, a government official said.“Currently, the focus is on Hero MotoCorp and MG Motor India, on which the MCA investigation is ongoing. MCA aims to complete it early, in about four months from now, by June,” the official told Moneycontrol.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMCA ordered the investigation into Hero MotoCorp in June 2023 to probe into the alleged diversion of funds. It will also examine its ownership structure after acknowledging an inquiry by the income tax department. In March 2022, tax authorities searched premises associated with Hero MotoCorp in a case of alleged tax evasion.The two-wheeler maker is also under the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) scrutiny. On November 10, the central agency said it had seized assets worth Rs 24.95 crore belonging to Pawan Kant Munjal, chairman and managing director and CEO of Hero MotoCorp, as part of a money-laundering investigation.Hero MotoCorp declined to comment on the matter.
 
The news published on the date February 29, 2024 12:31 PM IST with headline  Surprise slump in iron ore prices poses risk for India’s steel producers is: 
 If the slump in iron ore prices persists and it puts pressure on steel prices, then realisations will come under pressure globally It’s been the season of surprises in commodities for some years now. And 2024 seems no exception. The new year has seen iron ore prices slip back to their November levels, despite this being the period when China’s economic activity normally surges post-Lunar holidays. However, iron ore prices have fallen by 13.2 percent from the start of 2024.Steel output can offer some clues on what’s going on. In January, China’s crude steel output was down by 6.
 
The news published on the date February 29, 2024 11:15 AM IST with headline  Govt sets conservative wheat procurement target of 30-32 million tonnes for 2024-25 season is: 
 Govt sets conservative wheat procurement target of 30-32 million tonnes for 2024-25 season The government has fixed a conservative target of wheat procurement in the range of 30-32 million tonnes for the 2024-25 rabi marketing season, according to the food ministry.The lower target has been fixed despite the Ministry of Agriculture hoping for a record wheat production of 114-115 million tonnes in the 2023-24 crop year (July-June).Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe target was fixed after a deliberation with state food secretaries in a meeting chaired by Union Food Secretary Sanjeev Chopra in the national capital on Wednesday."After deliberations, the estimates for wheat procurement during the ensuing rabi marketing season of 2024-25 were fixed in the range of 30-32 million tonnes," the ministry said in a statement.Apart from wheat, the ministry has fixed a rabi paddy procurement target in terms of rice in the range of 9-10 million tonnes.The government has also set a procurement target of 6,00,000 tonnes for rabi coarse grains /millets (Shri Anna).In the meeting, the Centre has asked states and Union Territories to focus on procurement of millets for diversification of crops and enhanced nutrition in dietary patterns.In the 2023-24 season, the government procured about 26.2 million tonnes of wheat against the target of 34.15 million tonnes. In 2022-23, wheat procurement was only 18.8 million tonnes against the target of 44.4 million tonnes. The procurement was lower due to fall in production.Story continues below Advertisemen
 
The news published on the date February 29, 2024 10:47 AM IST with headline  Case for rate cuts strong if inflation keeps declining, says MPC's Ashima Goyal is: 
 Ashima Goyal is one of the three external members on the Reserve Bank of India’s Monetary Policy Committee. The case for interest rate cuts is expected to get stronger if inflation keeps declining, said Ashima Goyal, one of the three external members on the Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) Monetary Policy Committee (MPC)."But most forecasts see it rising again in Q3 (October-December 2024). So let us wait and see," Goyal told Moneycontrol in an interview on February 27, following the release of the minutes of the February 6-8 meeting of the MPC.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: Agri growth in FY25 should be well above 3%, says MPC's Shashanka BhideEarlier this month, Goyal voted with the majority to retain the policy repo rate at 6.5 percent for the sixth meeting in a row, with fellow external member Jayanth Varma breaking out and casting the first vote in favour of a rate cut by an Indian rate-setter since May 2020. Interestingly, Goyal noted that the RBI's Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation forecast of 4.5 percent for 2024-25 "gives room to cut" interest rates.As per the Indian central bank's latest forecast, headline retail inflation is seen declining to the medium-term target of 4.0 percent in July-September 2024 before climbing up again to end the year (2024) at 4.6 percent. Data released on February 12 showed inflation stood at a three-month low of 5.10 percent in January.
 
The news published on the date February 29, 2024 10:44 AM IST with headline  FDI inflows decline 13% to $32 billion in April-December 2023 is: 
 FDI inflows decline 13% to $32 billion in April-December 2023 Foreign direct investment (FDI) inflows in India declined 13 per cent to USD 32.03 billion in April-December 2023, dragged down by lower infusion in computer hardware and software, telecom, auto, and pharma sectors, according to the latest government data.FDI inflows stood at USD 36.74 billion during the corresponding nine months of the preceding fiscal.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdInflows during the October-December quarter of the current fiscal, however, rose by 18 per cent to USD 11.6 billion as against USD 9.83 billion during the same quarter of 2022-23.The total FDI -- which includes equity inflows, reinvested earnings and other capital -- declined by about 7 per cent to USD 51.5 billion during the period under review against USD 55.27 billion in April-December 2022, the data from the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) showed.During the nine-month period of this fiscal, FDI equity inflows decreased from major countries, including Singapore, the US, the UK, Cyprus and the UAE.
 
The news published on the date February 29, 2024 09:57 AM IST with headline  Start-up Street: Can India be at the forefront of AI technology? is: 
 There is a likelihood that AI technology may continue to be dominated by a handful of big companies. On February 27 2024, Abu Dhabi’s largest business conglomerate, the $238 billion-dollar IHC, said it had added an AI-powered observer to its board, a move it said will help the board take better strategic decisions. A couple of weeks ago, news of Sam Altman, the chief of OpenAI, seeking $7 trillion to ‘reshape the business of chips and AI” stunned the world.Such developments have ensured that AI is the key topic engaging the world today.What exactly i
 
The news published on the date February 29, 2024 08:33 AM IST with headline  What to look for in the Q3 GDP numbers is: 
 From the viewpoint of mass consumption and employment for the masses, is growth in the construction sector HighlightsA rise in consumption growth in Q3 should indicate that consumption growth is becoming more broad-basedIf we have strong growth in agriculture sector, that will help support mass consumptionGrowth in GVA of construction sector was very high in the September quarter, thanks to spending on infrastructure by central and state governments and the rebound in real estate. We need to see whether the momentum has been kept upQ3 numbers will tel
 
The news published on the date February 29, 2024 08:33 AM IST with headline  India is consensus builder at WTO, but certain nations breaking that: Piyush Goyal is: 
 India is consensus builder at WTO, but certain nations breaking that: Piyush Goyal India is a consensus builder in the World Trade Organisation (WTO) by playing a key role in the process but some countries are breaking that, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal said on Wednesday.He is here for the 13th ministerial conference (MC) of the WTO. The meeting started on February 26 to discuss issues such as agriculture and fisheries subsidies, dispute settlement and moratorium on customs duty levy on e-commerce trade.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe minister's remarks came amid allegations by certain developed nations that India is blocking deals at the WTO."Our stand is consistent... we have to see who are blocking the issues and who is responsible for not letting things of the WTO smoothly... It is proved that India in fact is a consensus builder and we are playing a key role in making consensus ...and certain countries are breaking that consensus on certain issues," Goyal told reporters here.He also said that India stands on strong principles of fair play, justice at the WTO and wants to ensure that all decisions taken at the multi-lateral body are in the best interests of India's farmers and fisher-folk.
 
The news published on the date February 29, 2024 08:32 AM IST with headline  India's economic growth expected to slip below 7% in October-December quarter is: 
 India's economic growth expected to slip below 7% in October-December quarter India's economic growth probably slipped below 7% for the first time in the current fiscal year in the October-December period, hit by a tepid manufacturing sector and weakness in consumption.The South Asian nation is expected to grow at 6.6% in the three months that ended on Dec. 31, a Reuters poll showed, slowing from growth of 7.6% in the previous quarter and 7.8% in the July quarter. India's fiscal year starts from April 1.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt 1200 GMT on Thursday, India will release the gross domestic product (GDP) data for the quarter, along with the revised estimate for the full year, which ends on March 31."Some moderation is expected in October-December GDP growth, with softer growth in manufacturing sector," said Gaura Sen Gupta, an economist at IDFC First Bank.Consumption growth in the quarter was "mixed", with retailers reporting a slowdown in sales growth, Sen Gupta said.
 
The news published on the date February 28, 2024 09:19 PM IST with headline  Dollar bounces before inflation data is: 
 Dollar bounces before inflation data The US dollar jumped on Wednesday as investors position for US and European inflation data due on Thursday, while the Australian and New Zealand dollars tumbled after New Zealand's central bank cut its forecast peak for interest rates and Australian consumer price inflation held at a two-year low.Month-end portfolio rebalancing is also likely to sway market direction, with volatility picking up on Wednesday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBrad Bechtel, global head of FX at Jefferies in New York, noted that volatility picked up on Wednesday, which may be "hedging in front of the inflation data to come out of the States and the EU," and also related to month-end flows.The implied volatility used by banks to price three-month options on the euro against the dollar reached 6.01 on Wednesday, the highest since Feb. 15, and was last at 5.78. Volatility in major currency pairs has been declining, with the euro/dollar measure falling to the lowest since January 2022 on Tuesday.Traders are focused on data to give further clues on when the US Federal Reserve is likely to begin cutting rates. Those expectations have been pushed to June, from May, on strong economic growth, sticky inflation and more hawkish commentary from Fed officials.
 
The news published on the date February 28, 2024 08:59 PM IST with headline  Indonesia, South Africa aim to regain lost share in Indian coal market is: 
 Indonesia, South Africa aim to regain lost share in Indian coal market Top coal exporters Indonesia and South Africa are aiming to ramp up supplies of thermal coal to key buyer India, company executives said, as they look to regain market share in the world's second largest import market for the fuel.Indonesia and South Africa are top suppliers of thermal coal to India, but have lost market share in recent years to the United States, Russia and Australia due to major changes in trade routes over geopolitical concerns.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWith a decline in Europe's appetite for coal, miners in both countries are now vying for a greater share of the steady Indian coal imports market."We see our low sulphur, high calorific value coal as a big advantage to supply to the Indian market. India's steel production expected to do well and it's good for South Africa," Kgabi Masia, chief coal operations officer at Exxaro Resources said at the Coaltrans India conference.South Africa boosted supplies of the power generation fuel to Europe at India's expense after Russia's war on Ukraine to take advantage of higher prices being offered, while Indonesia lost some share to Australia as it boosted supplies to China.
 
The news published on the date February 28, 2024 09:14 PM IST with headline  Gold holds ground as traders buckle in for Fed cues is: 
 Gold holds ground as traders buckle in for Fed cues Gold prices ticked up on Wednesday as traders strapped in for key economic data and comments from US central bank officials on the timeline of interest rate cuts.Spot gold was up 0.2% at $2,032.90 per ounce at 9:28 a.m. ET (1428 GMT). US gold futures was steady at $2,043.90 per ounce.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"The Fed is in the driver's seat for the gold market. We can see all-time highs in prices when they say something more concise on when the rate cuts are coming," said Bob Haberkorn, senior market strategist at RJO Futures."Gold is having a quiet session ahead of tomorrow's data. We need to see significantly better data that shows inflation is cooling for prices to move above the $2,050 mark."Data on Wednesday showed the US economy grew at a solid clip in the fourth quarter amid strong consumer spending but appeared to have lost some speed early in the new year.
 
The news published on the date February 28, 2024 08:40 PM IST with headline  Bitcoin crosses $60,000, monthly rally sharpest since December 2020 is: 
 Bitcoin hits $60,000 as 'FOMO' rally gathers pace Bitcoin, the world's largest cryptocurrency, surged past $60,000 on February 28 as the price rally continued in the backdrop of a flurry of funds inflow into the new US spot bitcoin exchange traded products.This marks the sharpest monthly price rally for Bitcoin since December 2020.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBitcoin, during the day's trading session, peaked to $60,131, which was 6 percent higher as compared to the previous day. The price was also the highest since November 2021, when the cryptocurrency had reached close to the $70,000-mark.Traders have poured into bitcoin ahead of April's halving event - a process designed to slow the release of the cryptocurrency. In addition, the prospect of the Federal Reserve delivering a series of rate cuts this year has fed investor appetite for higher-yielding or more volatile assets."Bitcoin is being driven by the support of consistent inflows into the new spot ETFs and outlook for April's halving event and June's Fed interest rate cuts," Ben Laidler, global markets strategist at retail investment platform eToro, said.
 
The news published on the date February 28, 2024 05:54 PM IST with headline  Stocks slip as traders hold fire ahead of US inflation data is: 
 Stocks slip as traders hold fire ahead of US inflation data World stocks eased on Wednesday as traders held their fire ahead of a US inflation reading this week that may influence the timing of the Federal Reserve's easing cycle.European stocks dipped 0.2% to hover just shy of recent highs, as lacklustre corporate earnings also weighed on sentiment. German stocks bucked the trend to add 0.2%.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMarkets across major assets were generally quiet, with investor focus squarely on the US personal consumption expenditures price index for January, the Fed's preferred inflation measure, due on Thursday.The index is expected to have risen 0.3% on a monthly basis in January, up slightly from the 0.2% increase seen in December, a Reuters poll showed.A slew of strong economic data, along with sticky inflation, has resulted in traders drastically dialling back their initial expectations of deep and early interest rate cuts from the Fed.
 
The news published on the date February 28, 2024 04:20 PM IST with headline  Ukraine War: Macron's 'Whatever It Takes' is more than PR is: 
 Emmanuel Macron had called an emergency meeting of Ukrainian allies in Paris. Emmanuel Macron’s refusal to rule out sending troops to Ukraine has caused an uproar across the French political spectrum. “Madness!” said the leftist leader Jean-Luc Melenchon. “Our children!” cried Marine Le Pen, from the hard right. They should all calm down. The president of Franceisn’t going to send soldiers to the killing fields of the Donbas, but he was signaling a new urgency in Europe’s approach to the war. Now he needs to deliver it.Macron had called an emergency meeting of Ukrainian allies in Paris, after Kyiv’s forces suffered battlefield losses in large part for lack of critical ammunition from the US and Europe. His real point was to show the Kremlin that whatever happens in the US, Europe won’t give up on Ukraine. Instead, he upgraded Europe’s pledge of support for the country’s defense from “as long as it takes” to “whatever it takes.”Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThis was why Macron said that no options can be ruled out, including putting boots on the ground, even while adding that there’s no consensus among Ukraine’s allies. Nor will there be, as other European leaders quickly made clear. Yet this was a necessary counter to the corrosive narrative being pushed hard by the Kremlin and its allies abroad, that resistance is futile because Russia cannot lose.Of course Russia can lose. When Moscow’s ambassador to the United Nations, Vassily Nebenzia, on February 23 pushed a line at the Security Council that across history, Moscow has only ever been invaded and always won, Poland’s Foreign Minister Radoslaw Sikorski delivered a witheringresponse. He recalled the many times Russia attacked others, including Poland, and the many times it lost. To be clear on what losing means, the Soviet Union also lost its 1939-1940 Winter War with Finland, even though it ended up taking some territory, because it was fought to a standstill at such a high price that it never tried again. This is what can and should happen in Ukraine.Russia has far greater resources than Kyiv, which will fight on at ruinous cost if abandoned. Yet the means available to Putin are in turn dwarfed by those of the US and Europe, whether combined or separately. It is the political will of the West to “do what it takes” that’s in question, and that’s about weapons and money, not boots on the ground. Yes, Europe lacks industrial capacity to match Russia’s furious production and purchase of artillery shells, but it can build new production lines for 2025. Macron’s meeting was held to deal with the dangerous period in between.
 
The news published on the date February 28, 2024 04:16 PM IST with headline  Multiplexes' revenue growth to dip to 15% in FY25; OTTs crimping profit margins is: 
 Multiplexes' revenue growth to dip to 15% in FY25; OTTs crimping profit margins Revenue growth for multiplexes will slow down to 10-15 per cent in FY25 from the 20-24 per cent expected in FY24, a domestic ratings agency said on Wednesday. The profit margins will widen marginally, but will continue to be lower than the pre-pandemic levels due to the competition faced by the industry from over the top service providers like Netflix and Amazon Prime, the report by Crisil Ratings said.The topline will grow 10-15 per cent to Rs 7,300 crore in FY25, it estimated, adding that in FY24, the revenue growth was higher due to a slew of big-budget releases, especially from Hindi films like Gadar 2 and Jawan, it said. The operating profit will grow by 4 percentage points to 14 per cent in FY24 on the rising revenues, and will widen further to 15 per cent in FY25, the agency said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"But that number (margins) will still be lower than the pre-pandemic level of 18-20 per cent, given the competition from Over-The-Top (OTT) content," the report said. The agency said OTT continues to benefit from high-quality and diverse content available on-tap and the competition from such platforms will keep occupancies below the pre-pandemic level going forward as well.Occupancy surged to 25 per cent in FY23 from 16 per cent in FY22, but remained below the pre-pandemic level of 30-32 per cent in FY20 amid increased penetration of OTT, it said, adding that Hindi films significantly underperformed than regional ones. "With movie producers aligning better with audience preferences and a stronger regional film pipeline, occupancies should remain at 26-28 per cent next fiscal and over the medium term," the agency's Director Naveen Vaidyanathan said.Continued supply of high-quality movies focusing on the large-screen experience will be crucial to sustain and improve occupancy at multiplexes, the agency noted. The agency's team leader, Shivaramakrishna Kolluri, however, said the slower revenue growth will take the topline to an all-time high, and attributed the same to factors such as addition of screens, rising movie ticket prices amid cost inflation and focus on premium formats.
 
The news published on the date February 28, 2024 04:11 PM IST with headline  Rupee falls 3 paise to settle at 82.92 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee falls 3 paise to settle at 82.92 against US dollar The rupee declined by 3 paise to settle at 82.92 (provisional) against the US dollar on Wednesday, tracking bearish equity markets and foreign fund outflow amid increased month-end demand for the American currency. Forex analysts said that softening crude oil prices provided a cushion to the Indian currency which was weighed down by a stronger dollar.Also, market participants were cautious ahead of the domestic GDP data to be released on Thursday and the US GDP numbers expected on Wednesday, they said. At the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 82.90 and touched the intra-day low of 82.95 against the greenback. The local unit finally settled at 82.92 (provisional) against the dollar, registering a loss of 3 paise from its previous close.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn Tuesday, the rupee settled 1 paisa lower at 82.89 against the US dollar. Anuj Choudhary, Research Analyst, Sharekhan by BNP Paribas, said the Indian rupee fell on weak domestic markets and a strong US dollar, however, softening crude oil prices cushioned the downside."We expect rupee to trade with a slight negative bias on weak global equities and month-end dollar demand from importers and OMCs (oil marketing companies). "Traders may take cues from Q4 GDP data (2nd estimates) from the US. Investors may remain cautious ahead of inflation data from the US this week. USD-INR spot price is expected to trade in a range of Rs 82.70 to Rs 83.10," Choudhary said.Meanwhile, the dollar index, which gauges the greenback's strength against a basket of six currencies, was 0.37 per cent higher at 104.21. Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, declined 0.92 per cent to USD 82.88 per barrel.
 
The news published on the date February 28, 2024 04:10 PM IST with headline  OPEC+ can trade short-term oil pain for long-term gain is: 
 OPEC+ is unlikely to call a formal meeting. Over the next few days, OPEC+ countries need to decide whether to extend their “voluntary” oil output cuts into the second quarter. The market anticipates a full rollover. Instead, I believe the cartel has a chance to add a bit of extra supply, taking some short-term pain for a long-term gain.In November, several OPEC+ nations, led by Saudi Arabia and Russia,announced a series of production curbs totaling 2.2 million barrels a day for the first quarter of 2024. The official explanation was that the reduction was to support “the stability and balance of oil markets.” Even if left unsaid, the actual objective was clear: establish a firm floor for crude prices at around $80 a barrel.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhat would come next was less clear at the time. “Afterwards, in order to support market stability, these voluntary cuts will be returned gradually subject to market conditions,” the group said on Nov. 30. Because OPEC+ needs to plan its production weeks in advance, that ”afterwards” means a decision for the second quarter has to come in the next few days.OPEC+ is unlikely to call a formal meeting. Instead, the group of eight countries that announced the first-quarter cuts is poised to make a series of individual, simultaneous announcements in the coming days. But don’t be fooled: Behind closed doors, OPEC+ ministers are negotiating. Formal talks haven’t started yet, officials tell me, but informal exchanges of views are ongoing.Inside the cartel, I hear there’s a strong view that “market conditions” don’t warrant more barrels right now. Oil prices, even if stronger than in late 2023, aren’t yet high enough to justify pumping more, some say. Part of the current market strength could also be a mirage, the thinking goes. In January, several disruptions, including cold US weather, reduced global supply, leading to larger-than-expected stock drawdowns. But that oil is coming back now. Moreover, refinery maintenance season is around the corner, reducing the need for oil, particularly during April.
 
The news published on the date February 28, 2024 10:41 PM IST with headline  Explained: Why India's Q3 FY24 GDP growth could slow down to 6.5% is: 
 The statistics ministry will release GDP data for October-December 2023 at 5:30pm on February 29. GDP data, along with headline retail inflation, is the most keenly-watched economic indicator of the Indian economy's performance. And with inflation declining and growth robust, many economists say India is in a 'goldilocks' phase.However, GDP growth is likely to have moderated sharply in the final quarter of 2023, with a Moneycontrol survey of economists suggesting it may ease to a three-quarter low of 6.5 percent from 7.6 percent in July-September 2023.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Statistics Ministry will release GDP data for October-December 2023 at 5:30pm on February 29.What will be the key monitorables?As usual, the agriculture and manufacturing sectors will have to be eyed closely.
 
The news published on the date February 28, 2024 03:48 PM IST with headline  I-T Dept’s faceless tax assessment facility enabling faster grievance redressal: FM is: 
 Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman The faceless tax assessment facility of the Income Tax Department is resulting in faster redressal of taxpayers’ grievances, which is a big step towards ease of doing business, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Wednesday.“The faceless assessment system was brought in so that discretion of an officer does not impact taxpayers. Taxpayers have found great relief and the redressal of grievances is faster. It’s a very big step in ease of doing business and taxpayer convenience,” Sitharaman said at the foundation stone laying ceremony of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) residential quarters building in Bengaluru.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Faceless Assessment Scheme was introduced by the Government of India to facilitate digital processing of income tax returns without any physical interface between the taxpayer and the tax officer. Under this scheme, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) established the Faceless Assessment Scheme for Income Tax. This scheme aims to promote transparency, efficiency, and accountability in the assessment process while reducing taxpayer grievances and corruption. The grievance redressal mechanism aims to provide taxpayers with accessible and timely solutions to their concerns, thereby enhancing trust and compliance in the taxation system.The Central Processing Center (CPC) is a key component of this scheme. It operates as the digital hub for processing income tax returns and conducting assessments in a faceless manner.“The CPC is located in Bengaluru, which drives the income tax system in the entire country. The entire national faceless scheme runs from Bengaluru,” she said.
 
The news published on the date February 28, 2024 03:02 PM IST with headline  India slowly taking export market share from China: Study is: 
 India slowly taking export market share from China: Study India is chipping away at China’s dominance in electronics exports in some key markets as manufacturers diversify supply chains away from the world’s factory to other parts of Asia, a new study shows.The impact is most pronounced in the UK and US, where geopolitical tensions with China have increased in recent years.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndia’s electronics exports to the US as a ratio of China’s increased to 7.65% in November last year from 2.51% in November 2021, according to London-based Fathom Financial Consulting. In the UK, the share rose to 10% from 4.79%.India’s government is luring electronics manufacturers to the country with heavy incentives, such as tax cuts, rebates, easier land acquisition and capital support. The aim is to expand the domestic manufacturing industry in order to export more, and help businesses grow to global scale through partnerships.
 
The news published on the date February 28, 2024 02:37 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | A bull case for Bitcoin is: 
 Alongside increasing demand for Bitcoin, a looming supply-side challenge is expected to intensify from April 20, 2024. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWith equity markets taking a pause, attention in the financial world has shifted to cryptocurrencies. A significant surge in cryptocurrencies, especially Bitcoin, has been anticipated ever since US authorities permitted exchange-traded funds (ETFs) in the spot market.Bitcoin reached a 2-year high on Tuesday, surpassing $57,000 and rallying over 10 percent in two sessions, fuelled by indications of substantial cryptocurrency purchases by major players. The surge was bolstered by an announcement on Monday from crypto investor and software firm MicroStrategy, revealing its recent acquisition of approximately 3,000 bitcoins for $155 million.Since their public debut on January 11, 2024, nine ETFs have accumulated 300,000 Bitcoins valued at $17 billion in less than two months. These holdings represent nearly 1.5 percent of Bitcoin's total supply of 21 million BTC.
 
The news published on the date February 28, 2024 01:12 PM IST with headline  Traders amass big bet on falling grain prices after bumper harvests is: 
 A net short position of 546,000 futures contracts across the three crops. Susannah Savage and George Steer in LondonCommodity traders have increased their bets on a slump in grain prices as bumper harvests lead to a global supply glut of corn, wheat and soyabeans.Hedge funds and other speculators have accumulated a net short position of 546,000 futures contracts across the three crops, the largest negative bet in nearly 20 years, according to the latest figures from the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission.The size of the wagers has grown a
 
The news published on the date February 28, 2024 01:00 PM IST with headline  India's super rich put 17% of investable wealth in luxury items: Report is: 
 India's super rich put 17% of investable wealth in luxury items: Report The Indian ultra-rich allocate 17 percent of their investable wealth towards luxury items, with maximum preference to watches followed by art and jewellery, according to Knight Frank.In a virtual press conference, real estate consultant Knight Frank released 'The Wealth Report 2024', highlighting that 17 per cent of the investable wealth of Indian Ultra-high Net Worth Individuals (UHNWI) is allocated towards luxury or passion investments.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdUHNWI are defined as individuals with a net worth of USD 30 million and above.The joy of ownership has been cited in the survey as the prime reason for Indian UHNWIs for making investments into luxury assets, the consultant said.Among Indian UHNWIs, luxury watches are the most coveted investment category, followed by art and jewellery.
 
The news published on the date February 28, 2024 01:13 PM IST with headline  New sanctions threaten Russian oil sales to India is: 
 New sanctions threaten Russian oil sales to India Fresh U.S. sanctions on Moscow threaten to dent Russian oil sales to India, the biggest buyer of Russian seaborne crude, and complicate efforts by Indian state refiners to secure annual supply deals, three industry sources familiar with the matter said.Washington on Friday imposed sanctions to mark the second anniversary of Moscow's invasion of Ukraine and retaliate for the death of opposition leader Alexei Navalny.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe sanctions target Russia's leading tanker group, Sovcomflot, which Washington accused of being involved in violating the G7's price cap on Russian oil, as well as 14 crude oil tankers tied to Sovcomflot.Sources said Indian refiners are concerned the latest sanctions will create "challenges" in getting vessels for Russian oil and could drive up freight rates. That may narrow the discount for the oil, which is bought from traders and Russian companies on a delivered basis.In addition, Moscow may have to push even more volumes through traders to shield from further sanctions risk, adding to uncertainties, the industry sources said, declining to be named because of the sensitivity of the matter.
 
The news published on the date February 28, 2024 11:43 AM IST with headline  India's EV revolution is spreading from autorickshaws to motorbikes is: 
 A Mahindra Last Mile Mobility Ltd. Treo SFT electric rickshaw. (Source: Bloomberg) Life moves pretty fast. That’s especially true in India’s booming cities.A decade ago, the country’s iconic auto-rickshaws had three wheels and a diesel engine. Battery-powered versions existed, but only enough to be seen as a novelty and unregulated threat. Officially, just 12 e-rickshaws were sold nationwide in 2014.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHow far we’ve come. The place where road transport is shifting most rapidly to battery power isn’t Oslo or Shenzhen, but Delhi. E-rickshaws took a 54 percent share of India’s three-wheeler market last year, driven by zippy, longer-range models and running costs that are a fraction of petroleum-powered alternatives. Visiting the country last week, one of the first stops for Uber Technologies Inc. Chief Executive Officer Dara Khosrowshahi was to get behind the wheel of a Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd electric three-wheeler and promise an expansion into two- and three-wheeled ride-hailing.Those betting India will come to the rescue of flailing global oil demand (it’s reckoned to be the biggest source of consumption growth between now and 2030, outstripping even China) need to reckon with how things are changing on the streets.There’s no mystery why e-rickshaws have been taking over. Buy a Bajaj Maxima with an engine and you’ll pay about three rupees per kilometer (5.8 cents per mile) for diesel — a significant slice of earnings that average out around 10 rupees per kilometer. A Piaggio Ape E City with a lithium-ion battery charged at home, on the other hand, might cost just 0.27 rupees per kilometer. As a result, e-rickshaws aren’t just cleaner and quieter — they’re more profitable, too. That’s a decisive consideration for drivers who are usually rural migrants trying to get a foothold in the big city.
 
The news published on the date February 28, 2024 01:13 PM IST with headline  Warren Buffett’s annual letter to shareholders is required reading on managing investors is: 
 For decades now investors have pored over Warren Buffett’s annual letter to shareholders, hoping to soak up whatever wisdom they can from the business icon. There’s a reason they call him the Oracle of Omaha.For decades now investors have pored over Warren Buffett’s annual letter to shareholders, hoping to soak up whatever wisdom they can from the business icon. Every year Buffett uses the letter to muse on economic cycles, as well as the perennial investing principles that have powered Berkshire Hathaway Inc into an enterprise valued at almost $1 trillion.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBut corporate boards and C-suites should also heed Buffett’s advice. His letter is full of lessons on how to run a company and manage your investors. Here are the big takeaways from this year:Talk to your shareholders like they’re Bertie. When Buffett crafts his report, he thinks of writing for Bertie, his 90-year-old kid sister. “Bertie, like most of you, understands many accounting terms, but she is not ready for a CPA exam,” he explains. “She follows business news – reading four newspapers daily – but doesn’t consider herself an economic expert.”To be fair, many of Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire’s shareholders are probably not as up on the news as Bertie, or as savvy an investor. But most companies could use a reminder that they should strive to communicate with investors in plain English. It helps avoid the “optimism and syrupy mush” that Buffett says are endemic of investor-relations and communications consultants. And if a company can’t explain its business model clearly and concisely, that should probably be a red flag to investors.
 
The news published on the date February 28, 2024 11:18 AM IST with headline  Sovereign Wealth Funds and Pension Funds: One step away from tax exemption on new investments? is: 
 The Government also needs to notify such eligible funds and the notification contains various conditions which need to be satisfied for claiming the exemption. By Hiren Shah and Alpa Shah Bauvard once said "Every culture has some ritual for joining two people together and making them stay that way, and ours is giving tax breaks."However, that tax benefit or tax break should be done with much clarity to avoid any uncertainty.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOne such clarity is required for exemption claims by sovereign wealth funds and pension funds under section 10(23)(FE) of the Income Tax Act, 1961.As per section 10(23FE) of the Act, certain income, of a ‘specified person*’, in the nature of dividend, interest, long-term capital gains, etc. arising from an investment made by it in India is exempt from income-tax subject to certain conditions. One of the conditions is that the investment is made during the period April 1, 2020 to March 31, 2024."Specified person" amongst others includes sovereign wealth fund and pension fund specified by Central Government, by notification in the Official Gazette subject to fulfilling the conditions as detailed.
 
The news published on the date February 28, 2024 10:18 AM IST with headline  Govt to decide on direct overseas listing of cos after GIFT City experience: Official is: 
 GIFT City is designed to attract global financial institutions. A decision on allowing direct listing of Indian companies on international stock exchanges may be taken at a later stage based on the experience at the Gujarat International Finance Tec-City International Financial Service Centre (GIFT IFSC), a senior government official said.The government, on January 24, had notified the direct listing of shares of unlisted Indian companies at GIFT City's exchanges.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“The government has enabled direct listing in GIFT City for unlisted companies. Direct listing in overseas exchanges is premature. The government will see the experience in GIFT City and a call may be taken in future,” the official told Moneycontrol.The direct listing of Indian companies' shares on GIFT City exchanges is the first step in allowing them to list overseas. The government had said in September 2023 that it was exploring the possibility of direct listing on international stock exchanges. Until now, Indian companies have not been permitted to list directly in overseas markets, and instead use American Depository Receipts or Global Depository Receipts to do so.Currently RBI, Sebi and the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) are discussing a framework for Indian listed companies to move to GIFT City.
 
The news published on the date February 28, 2024 08:55 AM IST with headline  The secret behind premiumisation, revealed by the Household Consumer Expenditure Survey is: 
 The lion’s share of the increase in consumption spending has been grabbed by the top 20 percent of the population HighlightsThe top 20 percent accounted for nearly half of the increase in urban consumption between 2011-12 and 2022-23The bottom half of the population got 27.2 percent of the increase in urban consumptionThe top 20 percent accounted for 45.7 percent of the rise in rural consumptionThe lion’s share of the increase in consumption spending has been done by the top 20 percent of the population—this is what is driving premiumisationThe implication is that the well-off have done muc
 
The news published on the date February 28, 2024 10:23 AM IST with headline  MC Pro Inside Edge | Kernex’s lofty guidance finds few takers, HNIs call Indus right, Thalapathy bets big on NIBE is: 
 Brokers catering to HNIs and ultra-HNIs are said to be getting enquiries on how the clients can invest through the FII route, especially when it comes initial public offerings Running out of steamIs the market’s appetite for railway stocks diminishing? Most of them are no longer reacting to announcements of order wins. Over the weekend, Kernex Microsystems made a presentation to a group of investors at a conference in Hyderabad. The projections were lofty to say the least. Kernex says it expects to bag at least Rs 120 crore of orders from the railways towards the implementation of KAVACH, an anti-collision device, this year. The shar
 
The news published on the date February 28, 2024 09:48 AM IST with headline  Fed’s soft-landing mirage could morph into higher-for-longer again is: 
 Real consumption trending higher The recent pick-up in US inflation has called into question the “soft-landing” scenario that most were projecting just three months ago. The implicit decline in macro risks of high inflation and a growth recession—when economic growth slows but not by enough to call it a recession—had created buoyancy for most asset classes.The greater-than-expected moderation in core personal consumption expenditure or PCE inflation and the dovish stance of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) in December 2023 guiding for three rate cuts in 2024 instead of two emboldened markets to price in six rate cuts by the end of 2024.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBut the US Federal Reserve’s guidance of an early pivot was facile and as the data rolls out, it may have to tone down its optimism. Contrastingly, if the current momentum sustains, core inflation will start turning up around April-May 2024, forcing the Fed to change its course, quite like it abandoned its transitory inflation thesis in 2021.Curve inversion predicted a recession, but the economy expanded solidlyThe prognosis of an impending recession was rooted in the extrapolation of the historically steep yield curve inversion (10 years to 3 months at 190 basis points or bps, mid-2023) induced by the 550-bps rate hike by the Fed.The theory behind the yield curve inversion leading to a recession is centred on the assumption that Fed rate hikes, quantitative tightening (QT) and rise in real interest rates would slow consumption demand, increase savings, and deflate prices.
 
The news published on the date February 27, 2024 11:06 PM IST with headline  IT leads rebound in Indian shares after lacklustre start is: 
 IT leads rebound in Indian shares after lacklustre start Indian shares recovered from a lacklustre start and logged gains on Tuesday, led by a rebound in information technology stocks, as investors await key domestic and US economic data due later in the week.The blue-chip index NSE Nifty 50 rose 0.34% to 22,198.35 while the BSE Sensex settled 0.42% higher at 73,095.22.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhile the benchmark Nifty 50 hit fresh record highs in every session last week, it has traded within a narrow 150-point range for three consecutive sessions."The outlook for domestic equities remains positive, helped by favourable liquidity and strong economic outlook, but consolidation will likely continue at record high levels for the next few sessions due to high valuations," said Sunny Agrawal, head of fundamental equity research at SBICaps Securities.IT index gained 0.72%, led by a 2.58% rise in Tata Consultancy Services after UBS upgraded the stock and estimated earnings recovery in fiscal 2025.
 
The news published on the date February 27, 2024 10:29 PM IST with headline  Dollar dips vs yen after Japan inflation data, US durable goods is: 
 Dollar dips vs yen after Japan inflation data, US durable goods The dollar was down slightly against the Japanese yen on Tuesday after data showing Japan's core consumer inflation exceeded forecasts and that US durable goods orders fell more than expected in January.The data out of Japan kept alive some expectations that the Bank of Japan might end negative interest rates by April.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn the United States, the Commerce Department's Census Bureau said orders for durable goods, items ranging from toasters to aircraft meant to last three years or more, tumbled 6.1% last month. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast durable goods orders tumbling 4.5%.Markets have recently pulled back expectations on the timing and size of Federal Reserve rate cuts this year as the US economy remains strong and inflation pressures failed to subside significantly.Against the yen, the dollar eased 0.2% to 150.39, while the US dollar index, which measures the currency against a basket of peers, was last up 0.05% at 103.82.
 
The news published on the date February 27, 2024 09:29 PM IST with headline  Gold holds firm as investors look to inflation data is: 
 Gold holds firm as investors look to inflation data Gold prices moved up on Tuesday as the US dollar and Treasury yields lacked momentum, while investors await key inflation reading and comments from Federal Reserve officials this week.Spot gold firmed 0.3% at $2,035.92 per ounce as of 9:35 a.m. ET (1435 GMT). US gold futures rose 0.3% to $2,044.10 per ounce.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe dollar index was subdued and benchmark 10-year Treasury yield slipped, making bullion more attractive for overseas buyers. [US/] [USD/]"A slight uptick in inflation data will pressure the gold market but it is well supported at the $2,000 level by central bank buying. It is unlikely Fed officials will change their stance until more data," said Phillip Streible, chief market strategist at Blue Line Futures, in Chicago."Gold will have a record run in the fourth quarter when rate cuts materialise."
 
The news published on the date February 27, 2024 09:24 PM IST with headline  Oil prices rise on uncertainty over Gaza ceasefire hopes is: 
 Oil prices rise on uncertainty over Gaza ceasefire hopes Oil prices rose on Tuesday as the market focused on uncertainty over a potential Gaza ceasefire and some expectations that producer group OPEC+ will extend voluntary supply cuts in March.Brent crude futures rose 50 cents, or 0.61%, to $83.03 a barrel by 1442 GMT. US West Texas Intermediate crude futures (WTI) were up 60 cents, or 0.77%, at $78.18.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMixed signals came from the Middle East as US President Joe Biden said Israel is ready to halt its attacks on Gaza for the Muslim holy month of Ramadan in a ceasefire that could be signed as early as next week. But Hamas officials said Biden's remarks were premature while it studies a truce offer.Also supporting crude were comments from Yemen's Houthi spokesperson, who said the group's operations in the Red Sea will stop only when Israeli "aggression" against Gaza ends and the siege is lifted.Houthi missile and drone attacks on international shipping have driven up the cost of transporting energy products and contributed to a tighter market.
 
The news published on the date February 28, 2024 03:59 PM IST with headline  Mamata vs Sitharaman – economic mismanagement driving industry out of Bengal: FM Sitharaman is: 
 The finance minister was speaking in Kolkata on February 27 at an event ‘Talk on Viksit Bharat and Eastern India’. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has called out the West Bengal government for its "irresponsible" policies. Speaking on February 27 at an event in Kolkata, Sitharaman said the state had fallen far from its golden days and called on its people to not tolerate the "absolutely irresponsible" state government."You should get back your mojo. You should get back the strength. How long will you tolerate this absolutely irresponsible government?" Sitrharaman asked at an event, 'Talk on Viksit Bharat and Eastern India', organised by socio-cultural organisation 'Khola Hawa'.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: How badly will Sandeshkhali hurt Mamata Banerjee in the upcoming elections?"I may not have been born in Bengal, but Bengal plays such a wonderful role for this country, all through history. Your thought leaders, your industry leaders, you stood out in culture, you stood out in music, you stood out in knowledge. Now tell me one parameter on which you are standing out," she said.According to Sitharaman, the economic mismanagement of West Bengal had driven the industry out of the state, listing power shortage, poor law and order, and "uncontrolled trade unionism" as some of the factors.
 
The news published on the date February 27, 2024 04:11 PM IST with headline  JP Morgan's Kolanovic has the chutzpah Wall Street strategists needs is: 
 Why do strategists herd? I suspect it’s one part education and one part risk-management. This year’s remarkable US equity rally has converted many market bears, but JPMorgan Chase & Co’s Marko Kolanovic clearly isn’t one of them.In a recent note, Kolanovic — who was incorrectly bullish in 2022 and bearish in 2023 — effectively doubled down on his latest out-of-consensus call, highlighting January data for consumer and producer price increases to warn that the market narrative risks taking a turn for “something like 1970s stagflation.” He said that could lead to a period of sustained underperformance for stocks, like the one that prevailed from 1967-1980.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHere’s how the JPMorgan’s chief global markets strategist put it (emphasis mine):With the Nasdaq index rallying ~70 percent in a year, tight labour markets, and high immigration and government fiscal spending, it wouldn’t be a surprise that inflation may stop declining or move higher. Can one get inflation under control with stock and crypto markets adding trillions of paper wealth, and tightening aspects of QT [quantitative tightening]neutralised by treasury issuance? For instance, just one tech company’s recent gains added the equivalent of the market capitalisation of the bottom 100 companies in the S&P 500, and the size of the crypto market doubled since last fall. Can the Fed lower inflation with these developments that are loosening monetary conditions?Although I’m more optimistic than Kolanovic, it’s a pleasure to see him still swinging for the fences even after two strikes.One of the most frustrating features of today’s Wall Street is the surfeit of milquetoast, homogenous research that says a lot without saying very much at all. The majority of sell-side equity strategists tend to offer relatively predictable calls — typically within 5-10 percent of the median — and only change their views when the rest of the herd does as well, often when market moves leave little choice.
 
The news published on the date February 27, 2024 04:06 PM IST with headline  Rupee slips 1 paisa to close at 82.89 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee slips 1 paisa to close at 82.89 against US dollar The rupee closed almost flat at 82.89 (provisional) against the US dollar in a restricted trade on Tuesday amid withdrawal of foreign funds and increased month-end demand for the American currency. According to forex analysts, the Indian currency resisted a sharp fall due to robust equity market sentiment and a weaker dollar even as investors kept an eye on domestic and global macroeconomic data to be released this week.At the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened firm at 82.87 against the dollar and touched a low of 82.90 in intra-day trade. The local unit finally settled at 82.89 (provisional) against the greenback, down by 1 paisa from the previous closing level. On Monday, the rupee settled 3 paise higher at 82.88 against the US dollar.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdJateen Trivedi, VP Research Analyst, LKP Securities, said, the rupee traded slightly weaker with minimal movement, while the dollar index remained flat at around 103.65. "Market participants are awaiting the release of core durable orders and CB consumer confidence data later in the evening, which could potentially impact the dollar index and influence further movement in the rupee," he added.Meanwhile, the dollar index, which gauges the greenback's strength against a basket of six currencies, was 0.12 per cent lower at 103.62. Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, were trading 0.12 per cent higher at USD 82.63 per barrel.On the domestic equity market front, Sensex rose by 305.09 points, or 0.42 per cent, to settle at 73,095.22 points. The Nifty gained 76.30 points, or 0.34 per cent, to close at 22,198.35 points. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital markets on Monday as they sold shares worth Rs 285.15 crore on a net basis, according to exchange data.
 
The news published on the date February 27, 2024 03:10 PM IST with headline  Goldman Sachs trades at a discount. Here’s why is: 
 Goldman racks up enough profitable days to more than compensate. (Source: Bloomberg) Anyone wondering why investment banks trade at a perennial discount to the wider stock market need only glance at Goldman Sachs Group Inc’s annual 10-K filing, which dropped Friday.First, there’s the pay. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer David Solomon’s compensation had already been disclosed: His earnings rose 24 percent to $31 million in a year when net profit fell 24 percent. The board’s compensation committee, perhaps feeling defensive, highlighted seven factors in support of their decision, including Solomon’s “decisive leadership in recognising the need to clarify and simplify the firm’s forward strategy.”Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBut it wasn’t just Solomon who took home a bigger piece of a smaller pie. In aggregate, employees earned $15.5 billion, equivalent to 34 percent of net revenue, even after severance has been stripped out. While this is not as high a share as in the days prior to the global financial crisis, when it averaged around 46 percent, it has been ticking up the past two years from a trough of 30 percent.One reason could be the firm’s push into alternative asset management, where pay demands are high. The firm is a top five player in the niche, with $295 billion of assets under supervision. Last year it generated over $2 billion in management fees from the business. In spite of weaker realised performance, though, employees did fine. Incentive fees declined to $161 million, yet the firm put aside $407 million in performance-related compensation to be shared among the 800 employees involved.Pure-play alternative asset management firms like Carlyle Group Inc have been reassessing how they allocate fees between employees and shareholders, with a trend towards a larger cut of the management fee reserved for shareholders and more of the incentive fee for employees. The objective is to align interests, allowing dealmakers to earn more in boom years and suffer in hard times while satisfying shareholders’ desire for predictability. Goldman has reportedly been doing likewise but to give shareholders the smooth earnings they crave, the firm may have to move fast.
 
The news published on the date February 27, 2024 02:59 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | What is driving India’s property market? is: 
 The property market continues to see brisk sales. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHiring in the IT services industry, a large employer of India's white collar workforce, may have hit a soft patch. But the property market shows no signs of getting affected by a setback to a key pocket of demand and continues to see brisk sales. Consider the latest data: total housing sales in the top seven cities increased by 8 percent in January 2024 from the year ago period, shows PropEquity data analysed by Nuvama Institutional Equities. This comes on the back of record sales of 5.36 lakh residential units in 2023.Sales in 2023 exceeded new launches by 18 percent and as a result inventories have fallen. This trend continued in January 2024. Unsold inventory decreased across major cities last month, barring in Hyderabad. “The inventory levels are at ~12-year low at slightly under 16-months as launches still not able to match with rising sales,” analysts at Jefferies India said in a note.Rising sales and falling inventories are pushing up prices. Average prices in the National Capital Region (NCR) and Bengaluru increased by a hefty 22–25 percent in January 2024 from the year ago month.
 
The news published on the date February 27, 2024 11:04 PM IST with headline  Drop in food expense in household consumption survey a good sign: Piyush Goyal is: 
 Reducing share of food expenses in household consumption survey augurs well: Piyush Goyal With the recent NSSO survey 2022-23 showing a sizable fall in food consumption expenses in the monthly per capita expenditure (MPCE), Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal said that the data augurs well for the household consumption basket.“Falling share of food expenses augurs well in the consumption basket,” Goyal said. The commerce minister was speaking at an event on the theme of "Viksit Bharat @2047" organised by industry body Ficci.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe changes in patterns obviously warrant a re-weighting of the Consumer Price Index which is now long overdue. The weights assigned in 2011-12 for many of the items now look out of sync with data. Food (Rural) is currently weighted at 54 percent while NSSO data show its monthly per capita expenditure (MPCE) share to be 46 percent, a sizable fall.The minister said, “ The consumption has increased in both rural and urban sectors, as per the consumer survey recently released.”The most important changes have been in non-food spending, which increased dramatically, especially for the rural sector to 54 percent, according to the survey.
 
The news published on the date February 27, 2024 05:23 PM IST with headline  Household Consumption Survey: A worrying concentration of income that doesn’t help industrial growth is: 
 Some might cheer such elevation of household help to the nation’s income elite as a sign of the nation’s progressive march towards equality. The most striking feature of the latest monthly per capita expenditure estimates is how low the purchasing power of most Indians remains, regardless of where India stands in the ranking of countries by aggregate GDP.Nearly four-fifths of Indians in rural areas consume less than Rs 4,500 worth of goods and services per month, that is, less than Rs 54,000 per year. The consumption of their urban counterparts is less than Rs 7,700 per month or Rs 92,400 per year. In other words, the family of a housemaid in a middle-class residential colony in a city like Delhi, who is paid Rs 15,000-Rs20,000 per month, and whose husband also has at least a comparable income, belongs to the top 25 percent or so consumers of the land.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSome might cheer such elevation of household help to the nation’s income elite as a sign of the nation’s progressive march towards equality. Such people probably also believe in elimination of poverty by statistics. The more realistic approach, which thinks it prudent to give free food to 80 crore or 56 percent of the population, as the present government has, would acknowledge the magnitude of distress in the country, and focus on what it takes to accelerate the pace of growth and to broaden the base of the growth that takes place.It would strike most well-off Indians as outlandish that their household help belongs to the top 25 percent consuming layer of society. How do we arrive at this conclusion? It is derived from the table, from the figures for the fractile class 70-80 percent. What is meant by a fractile and a fractile class?
 
The news published on the date February 27, 2024 12:55 PM IST with headline  Telangana to develop next phase of 'Genome Valley' with Rs 2,000 crore investment: CM Revanth Reddy is: 
 Telangana to develop next phase of 'Genome Valley' with Rs 2,000 crore investment: CM Revanth Reddy The Telangana government will be taking up the next phase of 'Genome Valley', the country's first organised cluster for Life Sciences R&D and clean manufacturing activities here with an investment of Rs 2,000 crore in 300 acres of land, Chief Minister Revanth Reddy said on Tuesday.Speaking at BioAsia 2024, a healthcare and life sciences annual event, Reddy said the government is also planning to develop ten "Pharma Villages" in the state which will have investment potential of Rs one lakh crore.Story continues below Advertisement"I am announcing here to establish the next phase of Genome Valley in 300 acres of land with Rs 2,000 crore of investment," he added.He further said the Pharma Villages will have the potential to generate five lakh jobs after they are established.Reddy said the government has also identified clusters for Greenfield Integrated Pharma Villages in Vikarabad, Medak and Nalgonda, all three different areas of Telangana for infrastructure and investment.According to him, the state government attracted over Rs 40,000 crore investments in the recently held World Economic Forum Summit in Davos, Switzerland.Telangana Industries Minister D Sridhar Babu said the state government will soon come out with a Lifesciences Policy
 
The news published on the date February 27, 2024 12:52 PM IST with headline  Jharkhand govt tables Rs 1.28 lakh crore budget for FY'25 in assembly is: 
 Jharkhand govt tables Rs 1.28 lakh crore budget for FY'25 in assembly The Jharkhand government on Tuesday tabled a Rs 1.28 lakh crore budget for the 2024-25 fiscal in the assembly. Ranchi, Feb 27 (PTI) The Jharkhand government on Tuesday tabled a Rs 1.28 lakh crore budget for the 2024-25 fiscal in the assembly.The budgetary estimates for FY'25 were up by over 10 per cent from the previous annual financial statement. The JMM-led coalition government had presented a budget of Rs 1.16 lakh crore for the current financial year 2023-24. The JMM-led coalition government had presented a budget of Rs 1.16 lakh crore for the current financial year 2023-24.Story continues below Advertisement"I lay on the table of the House a budget of Rs 1,28,900 crore for the financial year 2024-25," Finance Minister Rameshwar Oraon said in the assembly. This was the first budget of the newly formed Champai Soren government. This was the first budget of the newly formed Champai Soren government.The budget will meet the aspirations of every section of the society, including poor people, farmers, tribals and women, and will bolster the overall development of the state, he added. The budget will meet the aspirations of every section of the society, including poor people, farmers, tribals and women, and will bolster the overall development of the state, he added
 
The news published on the date February 27, 2024 12:51 PM IST with headline  Oil and gas profits triple under Joe Biden even as industry decries him is: 
 The outperformance under joe Biden underlines the limited role of the White House in dictating the sector’s fortunes. Myles McCormick in Houston and Jamie Smyth in New YorkProfits for the biggest US oil and gas producers have almost tripled under President Joe Biden, even as the industry berates his administration’s “hostile” policies and warns that a second term would be “disastrous” for the sector.The country’s top-10 listed operators by value, which will finish reporting their 2023 earnings this week, are on track to have amassed combined net income of $313bn in the first three year
 
The news published on the date February 27, 2024 12:49 PM IST with headline  India's April-January steel imports at six-year high as China shipments surge is: 
 India's April-January steel imports at six-year high as China shipments surge India's steel imports touched a six-year high in the first 10 months of the fiscal year to March, led by Chinese shipments, and India was a net importer of finished steel, according to provisional government data seen by Reuters on Tuesday.The demand for steel was strong in India, the world's second-biggest crude steel producer, as the country remained a bright spot globally with robust demand from its construction and automotive sectors.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSteel consumption in India jumped 14.5% to a six-year high of 112.5 million metric tons during the period, reflecting buoyant demand for the alloy in one of the world's fastest-growing economies.India's steel demand is likely to stay strong as the government expects economic growth will outpace the global economy in the next fiscal year.India imported 6.7 million metric tons of finished steel between April and January, up 35% from a year earlier, the data showed.
 
The news published on the date February 27, 2024 12:18 PM IST with headline  Household Expenditure Survey: Consumption still the key driver but its patterns are changing is: 
 Many changes have happened (technological, financial, cultural) and also because economic growth is maturing. Consumption is the largest driver of the economy, but we have had to wait for eleven years to get a sliced and diced view of it. The highlights from the data of the latest NSSO survey 2022-23 on household consumption expenditure are not entirely unexpected – spending went up nearly 2.5 times with rural outpacing urban, disparity between urban and rural spending narrowed, and the share of non-food spending went up significantly.These are expected as many changes have happened (technological, financial, cultural) and also because economic growth is maturing. The jump in rural non-food consumption, though, may be a bit of a surprise given the narratives around rural distress impacting FMCGs. It was perhaps the effect of higher rural inflation and savings, if not incomes, that drove spending.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThis would seem the case especially for the more pronounced fall in the share of food. In fact, if we strip away the effects of inflation, the CAGR for both rural and urban spending falls to a more modest 4 percent during the decade. Interestingly, freebies under social welfare did not seem to have had a significant impact on consumption.Lens On CPIThe changes in patterns obviously warrant a re-weighting of the CPI index which is now long overdue. The weights assigned in 2011-12 for many of items now look out of sync with data. Food (Rural) is currently weighted at 54 percent while NSSO data show its monthly per capita expenditure (MPCE) share to be 46 percent, a sizeable fall.
 
The news published on the date February 27, 2024 11:36 AM IST with headline  Consumer Expenditure Survey shows poverty at a decade low of 4.5-5%, says SBI is: 
 The survey data also shows that consumption inequality had fallen in both rural and urban areas, with rural consumption fast catching up with urban consumption. The latest Consumer Expenditure Survey suggests that India's poverty levels dropped sharply in 2022-23, with urban poverty at 4.6 percent and rural at 7.2 percent, State Bank of India's group chief economic advisor Soumya Kanti Ghosh has pointed out.These levels are significantly lower than 13.7 percent for cities and 25.7 percent for villages estimated in 2011-12.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: Consumer Expenditure Survey offers a look into the next CPI inflation series"It is possible that these numbers could undergo minor revisions once the 2021 population (census) is completed and new rural-urban population share is published. We believe urban poverty could decline even further. At an aggregate level, we believe poverty rates in India could now be in the range of 4.5-5 percent," Ghosh said in a report on February 27."Remarkably, states that were once considered laggards are showing the maximum improvement in rural and urban gap. States like Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh are showing increasingly the impact of factors that are endogenous to the rural ecosystem," he said.
 
The news published on the date February 27, 2024 05:23 PM IST with headline  Trading mindfully for success, Michael Phelps style is: 
 Traders are brain warriors, trading is not a physical endeavour. When I started trading markets in 1986, I knew next to nothing about the markets. I thought successful investors/traders had some magic formula, ratio or analysis that they deployed to beat the crowds. I spent the first few years searching for a panacea to attain my stock market ambitions. In the first decade of my journey I tried everything conceivable – fundamental analysis, charting (technical analysis), trading on news announcements and other systems. Nothing seemed to work.M
 
The news published on the date February 27, 2024 01:21 PM IST with headline  Chart of the Day: India’s electricity demand set to outpace China and world is: 
 Power Grid is riding on higher capex charged up by increased generation capacity, impetus for renewables The rapid rise in electricity demand is well documented. But how do India’s growth rates compare with rest of the world? The latest Electricity 2024 report from International Energy Agency (IEA) provides some context.Electricity demand in India increased by 7 percent in 2023, faster than China and major countries across the globe. Global electricity demand is estimated to have risen by 2.2 percent in 2023.Th
 
The news published on the date February 27, 2024 09:01 AM IST with headline  Can PM’s project push help the energy sector power ahead? is: 
 Representative image HighlightsOver the last few weeks, Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated several power projectsThese projects are both in fossil and non-fossil segmentsThe mix of new projects underlines India’s continued reliance on dirty fuelThis is because the implementation of renewable energy projects remains patchyBetter execution of projects on the ground is essential to push power reformsBefore the model code of conduct gets triggered ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha election likely to be held in a couple of months
 
The news published on the date February 27, 2024 08:53 AM IST with headline  A profile of the seriously weird average Indian consumer, from the Household Consumer Expenditure Survey is: 
 - HighlightsWhat the average consumer’s heart desires the most are "beverages, refreshments and processed foods, including purchased cooked meals”In accordance with Engel’s Law (Ernst Engel, not Friedrich Engels), as household incomes rise, the percentage of incomes spent on food decreasesOur average consumer’s spending on cereals, as a percentage of total consumption expenditure, has come down sharply--that is a good thing, in view of the medical consensus that cereal makes you fatMost peopl
 
The news published on the date February 27, 2024 03:16 PM IST with headline  Private sector banks weight in Nifty Bank hits multi year low; PSU banks surge is: 
 Share prices of public sector banks have risen sharply in the last one year, leading to their weightage in the index soaring. Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × The weightage of private sector banks in the Nifty Bank index has shrunk as these stocks traded lower than last year. The shares of public sector banks, in contrast, have seen a sharp rally in this period, raising their weightage in the index.There are multiple reasons for this differential pattern in the trade of banking stocks. Public sector banks have better access to low-cost deposits because of a much bigger base of savers and a better network. This helps them keep their cost of funds low. On the other hand, private sector lenders find it increasingly challenging to collect deposits. As a result, they have been forced to raise the deposit rates and also borrow from the wholesale market where the cost of funds are much higher. This hurts net interest margins, which is the interest earned on borrowed funds minus the interest paid for them.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThis apart, the perception of public sector banks has changed because the outlook on public sector undertakings as a whole, has turned bullish.AU Small Finance Bank’s weight fell to 1.8 percent in February 2024 from 2.4 percent in March 2022. For Axis Bank, the weight dropped from 11.6 percent in March 2022 to 10.1 percent in February 2024, while for Bandhan Bank, it went down from 1.8 percent to 1 percent. HDFC Bank, the largest private lender, saw its weight erode to 25.2 percent in February 2024 from 27.8 percent in March 2023 and 28.5 percent in March 2022. Kotak Mahindra Bank's weight in Nifty Bank declined to 9.2 percent in February from 10 percent last March and 11.4 percent in the previous comparable month.ICICI Bank's weight in Nifty Bank, however, went up by a notch to 24.8 percent in February 2024 from 24 percent in March 2023 and 22.4 percent in March 2022. And, IDFC First Bank nearly doubled its weight to 2 percent in February 2024 from 1 percent in March 2022.PSU Banks, on the other hand, show a consistent rise in weight in Nifty Bank Index. SBI's weight rose to 12 percent in February 2024 from 10.1 percent in March 2023, for PNB it was 2.4 percent from 0.9 percent, and for Bank of Baroda to 3.1 percent in February 2024 from 1.8 percent in March 2022.The collective surge in the state-run lenders has taken the PSU bank weight in Nifty50 index to a seven-year high of 3.1 percent in February from 2.6 percent last March. Analysts said improved operational performance has enabled the state-run banks to raise capital in public markets and generated substantial demand in recent QIPs, reducing government shareholding. This has increased their free float market capitalisation, contributing to a higher weight within the Nifty for PSBs.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdStory continues below AdvertisementPSU banks have staged a strong comeback, outperforming the Nifty Private Bank index with the Nifty PSU Bank Index delivering a remarkable 162 percent returns since March 2022, compared to 24 percent for private banks. Despite the sharp rally and re-rating, PSU stock valuations appear reasonable relative to business growth and profitability, analysts said.According to Motilal Oswal Securities, with robust balance sheet liquidity, PSU banks are well-positioned for healthy growth and resilient margins, benefiting from MCLR repricing and favorable bond-yield trends. Capital raised from the market positions them for potential gains in corporate demand post general elections, supporting sustained performance and sector re-rating in a conducive macro-environment.The weight of Banking and Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI) shares in Nifty has dropped to 32.1 percent, a significant decrease from 37.7 percent a year back. This marks a notable 5.6 percent decline in the index's banking weight. The BFSI weight last fell below 30 percent in March 2016.Disclaimer: The views and investment tips expressed by investment experts on Moneycontrol.com are their own and not those of the website or its management. Moneycontrol.com advises users to check with certified experts before taking any investment decisions
 
The news published on the date February 26, 2024 07:28 PM IST with headline  Exclusive: Govt likely to focus on strengthening related party clause in company law is: 
 ZEEL allegedly diverted funds through related-party transactions. In the backdrop of big corporates like Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd (ZEEL) coming under scrutiny for alleged governance lapses, the Centre is likely to review the related party clause of the Companies Act 2013 and may look at further strengthening it, a senior government official said.“The government will focus attention on the related party clause. It will see if there is a need to strengthen it. How do we strengthen the related party clause? This will engage the government's attention. All the big investigations have found the issue of related party transactions. Currently, the regime is lenient and disclosure-based,” the official told Moneycontrol.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe official said that the recent investigations of ZEEL are likely to allegedly expose the issue of related party transactions.Markets regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has summoned several former directors of ZEEL as part of its investigation into the entertainment company over the diversion of company funds, allegedly through related-party transactions.SEBI alleged that the promoters illegally withdrew Rs 200 crore from the company for their benefit. The money was used to provide collateral for the debt owed by private companies of promoters, including Essel Green Mobility and Pan India Infra Projects, among others. The collateral was through a letter of comfort (LoC) to the lenders.
 
The news published on the date February 26, 2024 08:45 PM IST with headline  Household consumption report points to steady growth; gives pointer to reforms, getting workers off the farm key to economic growth is: 
 Indeed, the data indicates that all social groups are doing better than in 2011-12. Recent macroeconomic discourse has been dominated by a fusillade of large numbers, mostly concerning the size of GDP and market capitalization. These numbers are indeed impressive.India’s GDP, currently at $3.7 trillion, is projected by the finance ministry to reach $5 trillion by 2026-27, overtaking Germany and Japan. India’s stock market capitalization, at $4,5 trillion, is also within striking distance of Hong Kong’s.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn Saturday evening, the Ministry of Statistics released a different sort of number, the long-awaited household expenditure survey, providing granular information about India’s consumption habits, including those at the bottom of the pyramid. As the 2017-18 survey results were withheld, this is the first since 2011-12.The big picture is that of steady progress over the decade. It certainly does not support any narrative of immiseration on account of so-called ‘crony capitalism’, something which will help the government in the upcoming elections. Indeed, the data indicates that all social groups are doing better than in 2011-12.ALSO READ: No case for MSP and other policy lessons from the Consumption Survey
 
The news published on the date February 26, 2024 04:39 PM IST with headline  No case for MSP and other policy lessons from the Consumption Survey is: 
 India’s expenditure on food has fallen to less than 50 percent of the total consumption expenditure in rural India for the first time The household consumption expenditure survey, released after more than a decade, offers valuable insights into the shifting consumption patterns of Indians. The good news is that Indians are spending less on food, implying increasing disposable income that can be spent in other areas. Also, there is a shift in consumption patterns from cereals to high-protein foods such as meats and dairy.RURAL SHOWS THE WAYStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndia’s expenditure on food has fallen to less than 50 percent of the total consumption expenditure in rural India for the first time. Spending less on food translates into higher spending on other categories, including consumer durables, entertainment and so on. Spending on food in rural India is down to 46.38% from 59.4 percent in 1999-2000. In an analysis of the survey, brokerage Emkay notes: “Higher growth for rural MPCE (monthly per capita expenditure) is at odds with the argument that the economy has been sluggish over the last few years.”The survey, notes Emkay, also demonstrates that rural livelihoods have improved, especially for the lowest-income classes. The difference between rural and urban monthly per capita consumption expenditure as a percentage of rural MPCE declined to 71 percent in 2022-23 from 84 percent in 2011-12 and over 90 percent in 2004-05. “The poorest level rural households have been able to spend at a much closer level to their urban counterparts, and this implies that the government policy initiatives to enhance rural incomes have worked to an extent,” the Emkay note said.These findings come two years after the pandemic that upended several calculations on rural growth as India’s overall growth contracted. While the government was relatively conservative in its fiscal outreach across sectors compared to the rest of the world, a raft of measures was announced to soften the blow of economic activity coming to a standstill for several months. The measures were specifically targeted at rural India. India imposed one of the most stringent lockdowns in the world and announced a subsidised food grain scheme for nearly 800 million Indians, besides cash support. Apart from the pandemic, demonetisation announced in 2016 that made Rs500 and Rs1000 notes illegal had reportedly been a cause of great distress in rural areas. However, the survey findings illustrate that rural India’s recovery gives reasons to be more optimistic.
 
The news published on the date February 26, 2024 04:12 PM IST with headline  How India’s UPI and Brazil’s Pix are fast pushing the financial inclusion pedal is: 
 A decline in Average Tickets Size can be inferred as people using the system for smaller transactions, meaning people from poorer sections are also now using these systems. In their race to leapfrog development, BRICS members India and Brazil have heavily invested in digital technologies to accelerate financial inclusion. Both have launched instant payment systems – the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) in India in 2016 and Pix in Brazil in 2020.Our comparative data analysis of the two systems finds that both systems are rapidly adopted by financially weaker sections for payments, shown by sharply falling Peer-to-Merchant (P2M) average ticket sizes (ATS). While there are marked differences in how the two systems have been regulated, the story is loud and clear: financial technologies built on the back of expanding smartphone ownership and internet access need to be at the heart of financial deepening efforts around the developing world.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdUPI and Pix: Aims and RulesUPI and Pix, although share common goals of increasing banking access, reducing cash dependency, integrating the informal economy into the mainstream and increasing payment convenience, differ in their regulatory frameworks.UPI is run by the NPCI, a public-private partnership in India, contrasting with Brazil’s central bank-controlled Pix. India’s proactive approach to UPI adoption, characterised by minimal fees, contrasts with Brazil’s allowance of merchant fees in Pix.
 
The news published on the date February 26, 2024 06:57 PM IST with headline  The platter in villages is getting more protein-rich, shows household consumption data is: 
 People’s higher spending on nutritional items in their diet is also a reasonable proxy to measure rising rural incomes driven by greater economic opportunities As hundreds of millions of people shift to higher standards of living, the focus is changing from basic needs of nutrition such as rice and coarse grains to more aspirational products such as protein-rich eggs, meat and fish.The latest household consumption and expenditure survey ( HCES 2022-23) data shows that consumption of protein-rich food items such as pulses, milk, eggs and fish have risen faster than food staples such as cereals.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn 1999-2000, rural households, on an average spent, 22 per cent of total consumption spending on cereals such as rice and wheat. This was disproportionately high, leaving little for spending on buying protein-rich items such. This has dramatically come down to 4.91 per cent.Urban households used to spend 12 per cent on cereals in 1999-200. This has come down to 3.94 per cent in 2022-23.
 
The news published on the date February 26, 2024 06:57 PM IST with headline  Consumption expenditure data: What does India eat? is: 
 One, rural households, on a proportional basis, spend significantly more on milk, pulses, egg, meat and fish, compared to their urban counterparts How has the composition of the food plate changed in India over the years? Specifically, what are Indians eating more now, on a relative basis, as compared to two decades ago? How has this trend changed over the years? Importantly, what do Indians eat?The Household Consumption and Expenditure Survey 2022-23, (HCES) has thrown up some very interesting data that will enable more focussed policymaking.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSample this.Of every Rs 100 that a rural household spends, Rs 46.38 is spent on food. This has fallen from Rs 59.40 in 1999-2000, to Rs 53.11 in 2004-05, grew again to Rs 56.98 in 2009-10, fell to Rs 52.90 in 2011-12 and further to Rs 46.38 in 2022-23.
 
The news published on the date February 26, 2024 06:53 PM IST with headline  People in villages are splurging at a faster pace than city folks is: 
 There has also been a sharp rise in spending in toiletries and household consumables among rural households—up 28 per cent to 5.12 of every 100 in 2022-23 from 4.01 in 2011-12 It is official. People in India’s villages are splurging at a faster pace than city folks. It is not just on food alone. This rapidity in expenses is evident across the spending spectrum: from entertainment to consumer durables, to toiletries and household consumables, to consumer services.The latest Household Consumption and Expenditure Survey 2022-23 (HCES) shows that monthly household consumer spending among rural households has galloped in many of the so-called `lifestyle’ items, indicating that many of yesterday’s luxuries may have become today’s essentials.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFor every Rs 100 that a rural household spends in a month, Rs 6.89 goes towards 'durables’, which include home appliances such as refrigerators, washing machines and gas stoves, among others. This is up 42 per cent from ten years ago (2011-12) when such households were spending Rs 4.85 of every Rs 100 spent in a month on similar items.In comparison, the spending in urban households on durables have gone up 28 per cent, from Rs 5.6 in 2011-12 to Rs 7.17 in 2022-23 of every Rs 100 spent in a month.
 
The news published on the date February 26, 2024 03:09 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Is the rural consumption slowdown a mirage? is: 
 The gap between urban and rural household consumption expenditure has fallen and rural consumption has grown faster. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe government’s data on household consumption expenditure shows that the average urban household spent 1.83 times what a rural household spent in 2011-12 and this number has fallen to 1.69 times in 2022-23. That is, the gap between urban and rural household consumption expenditure has fallen and rural consumption has grown faster. This is for the data that takes into account the value of free foodgrains supplied to households.How does this square with the narrative peddled by listed FMCG companies that rural consumption demand has been weak and even as recent as the December quarter, it has not become robust? Urban demand continues to be the main driver for sales and profitability for most listed FMCG companies.The data that we have is two points between 2011-12 and 2022-23. But the stock market’s lens is a much shorter one, focused on the quarter, year or at most a few years.
 
The news published on the date February 26, 2024 02:46 PM IST with headline  What have you made on private equity? Who knows?! is: 
 Dividends can be funded by borrowing either by portfolio companies or by the fund itself against the value of a private equity portfolio. There are lies, damned lies and statistics – and then there’s IRR. The internal rate of return metric used by private-capital managers has long had critics in finance and academia because it is easily manipulated and hard to compare with the transparent returns of, say, stocks and bonds. Still, it survives because there is no killer alternative.Now, after a spell when private equity has struggled to sell portfolio companies due to unpredictable stock markets and a lack of high-yield debt funding, investors in such funds are increasingly looking at cash-based measures of performance. The numbers aren’t great: Cash distributions by the biggest private equity firms to their investors dropped by almost half between 2012 and 2023, Bloomberg News reported last week.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFor the whole industry, the picture of decline over the past two years is similar, according to data from MSCI. For the first nine months of 2023, its most recent complete data, total payouts from global private equity funds, excluding venture capital, were $166 billion. In the first nine months of 2021, that number was $357 billion. Include venture capital and the drop is even greater with 2023 distributions less than one-third of those in 2021.Another way of tracking this is to calculate capital distributions as a percentage of capital paid in to funds in each quarter. On that basis, the first half of 2023 saw payouts running at a similar rate as mid-2020, the depths of the Covid pandemic. Those periods saw the worst numbers since the global financial crisis of 2007-2009.These numbers tell investors what’s happening right now, but they don’t say much about underlying fund performance because of differences in the timing of when money is invested and returned. To address that, investors are turning to a measure known as DPI, the ratio of distributed to paid-in capital. This gives a real picture of cash returns on the money they actually handed over.
 
The news published on the date February 27, 2024 03:06 PM IST with headline  Why India’s consumption expenditure data should cheer investors is: 
 In 2024 so far, FPIs have been net sellers ($3.5 billion) and DIIs have been net buyers ($5.6 billion) of Indian stocks Latest Household Consumption Expenditure Survey data for 2022-23 clearly elucidates the classic Engel’s Law at play in India, wherein the share of spending on food declines as income rises. Of course, higher income means increased spending on food of superior quality that costs more, but this is unlikely to reverse the overall decline of the share of food in the consumption basket.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSource: MospiWhy is it great news for the markets?The theory can be extended to a country-wide scale and shows that countries with higher average household income see a lower proportion of income spent on food – which is measured by the Engel coefficient that reflects its economic status. A decreasing Engel coefficient usually indicates economic growth with a rising income level in the country.
 
The news published on the date February 26, 2024 01:57 PM IST with headline  India lifts forecast on peak electricity demand as usage soars is: 
 India lifts forecast on peak electricity demand as usage soars India has raised its forecast on peak electricity demand as energy consumption continues to outpace expectations, pushing the nation to expand its giant coal fleet.Government officials now expect electricity demand to surge to a high of 384 gigawatts in the 12 months through March 2032, a 5% increase on an estimate issued in May, according to people familiar with the details.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA review of forecasts was carried out after a sharp rise in demand last year, when searing temperatures prompted higher use of air conditioners and pumps for irrigation, said the people, who requested anonymity as they were not authorized to speak publicly.India’s power ministry didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.
 
The news published on the date February 26, 2024 01:38 PM IST with headline  Indian hotel industry to report 7 to 9% revenue growth in FY25: ICRA is: 
 Indian hotel industry to report 7 to 9% revenue growth in FY25: ICRA The Indian hotel industry is expected to register a revenue growth of seven to nine per cent in the next financial year 2024-25, according to a report by credit rating firm ICRA.ICRA said that sustenance of domestic leisure travel, demand for meetings, incentives, conference and exhibitions (MICE) are the factors which will drive demand in the next financial year, despite a temporary lull during the ensuing general elections.Story continues below AdvertisementThe research firm said that spiritual tourism and Tier 2 cities are expected to contribute meaningfully to the overall demand in the next fiscal.According to ICRA, estimates for pan-India hotel occupancy reached a decadal high of 70 per cent to 72 per cent in the current financial year and next fiscal, as compared to 68 per cent to 70 per cent in 2022-23.Pan-India, average room rates (ARRs) are expected to be around Rs 7,200 to Rs 7,400 in the current fiscal, which is likely to rise further to Rs 7,800 to Rs 8,000 in the next financial year.ICRA holds a positive outlook for the Indian hospitality industry with improvements in credit ratings, the report said.The demand uptick resulted in a pickup in supply announcements and commencement of deferred projects in the last 18 to 24 months, however, adding that supply would lag demand
 
The news published on the date February 26, 2024 01:11 PM IST with headline  Household Consumption Expenditure Survey 2022-23: Here are the FAQs is: 
 Household survey Q&A The Household Consumption Expenditure Survey (HCES) is designed to collect information on household purchases of goods and services. The information helps to understand consumption and expenditure patterns, standard of living, and the well-being of households. The data is also utilised to derive various other macroeconomic indicators.Here are the highlights of the 2022-23 survey, the latest conducted by the National Sample Survey Office.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdQ1. What was the increase in capita consumption spending in 2022-23 from 2011-12?A1. India's per capita monthly consumption expenditure was 33-40 percent higher in 2022-23 (August-July) than in 2011-12 (July-June), according to the Household Consumer Expenditure Survey, released on February 24.While per capita monthly consumption in rural areas was 40 percent higher at Rs 2,008, it was up 33 percent in urban areas at Rs 3,510, after adjusting for inflation. This represents an average annual growth of 3.1 percent for rural per capita consumption and 2.7 percent for its urban counterpart. Over the same period, India's real GDP grew 5.7 percent on average each year.
 
The news published on the date February 26, 2024 12:30 PM IST with headline  Chart of the Day: What a steep hike in sugarcane FRP means for sugar mills and investors is: 
 The industry is reeling under the government’s measures to keep sugar prices down. One may have thought that the sugar industry’s predicament would see a milder increase in the sugarcane procurement price for 2024-25 (season starting October). But an election year has meant that the central government, perhaps, does not want to take any chances.The government-declared benchmark fair and remunerative price (FRP) for sugarcane procurement by sugar mills has been fixed at Rs 340 a quintal for the 2024-25 season (starting October), or 8 percent higher than a year ago
 
The news published on the date February 26, 2024 02:35 PM IST with headline  New Household Consumption Survey: High time we released new CPI data is: 
 A new CPI index with lower food weight will have a lower impact on overall inflation which will help MPC achieve its target more efficiently. The Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MOSPI) released the much awaited findings of the Household Consumption Expenditure Survey (HCES) for the year 2022-23. The last round of HCES was done in 2011-12. The Survey is used to estimate various important economic indicators such as poverty line and new base year for consumer price inflation (CPI). The two important indicators of CPI and poverty line were also last estimated in 2011-12.MOSPI has only released the Factsheet as of now and will release the detailed report later. The factsheet points to interesting trends and ongoing changes in the Indian economy.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFirst, the earlier Survey questionnaire had 347 items. The new questionnaire has 405 items which reflects both new categories and removal of obsolete categories. The survey was conducted at 2,61,746 Households (1,55,014 in rural areas and 1,06,732 in urban areas).What MPCE Data RevealsSecond, the monthly per capita consumption expenditure (MPCE) for Rural India and Urban Indian has been estimated at Rs 3,773 and Rs 6,459 respectively. The MPCE has increased over the different survey rounds which is expected given growth in the Indian economy and incomes. However, the annual growth rate of MPCE (rural: 9.2 percent and urban 8.5 percent) has declined compared to previous surveys of 2009-10 and 2011-12. The growth rates at constant 2011-12 prices for rural and urban are even lower at 3.1 percent and 2.7 percent respectively.
 
The news published on the date February 26, 2024 10:25 AM IST with headline  Warren Buffett reminds us of Charlie Munger's greatest investment advice is: 
 The lessons of Buffett and Einhorn suggest that the ability to change with the circumstances is critical to long-term survival. The Warren Buffett philosophy was never an immutable doctrine frozen in time. In his first shareholder letter after the death of his late, great partner Charlie Munger last November, the Oracle of Omaha reminded investors how important it is to change with the circumstances (emphasis mine):...Charlie, in 1965, promptly advised me: “Warren, forget about ever buying another company like Berkshire. But now that you control Berkshire, add to it wonderful businesses purchased at fair prices and give up buying fair businesses at wonderful prices. In other words, abandon everything you learned from your hero, Ben Graham. It works but only when practiced at small scale.” With much back-sliding I subsequently followed his instructions......In reality, Charlie was the “architect” of the present Berkshire, and I acted as the “general contractor” to carry out the day-by-day construction of his vision.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBuffett has told versions of this story before, but it’s an important parable for a market that’s in the midst of seismic changes. Traditionally conceived, value investing has gotten crushed by growth-driven approaches for some 15 years, leading some underperforming managers to lash out and declare that something must be amiss — and maybe they’re right. The triumph of growth and momentum has also increased the influence of the so-called Magnificent Seven mega-capitalization growth stocks, fanning concerns about their sway over the benchmark S&P 500 Index.But the job of any investor, really, is to figure out how to thrive no matter the circumstances, not complain about them. That’s what Munger and Buffett understood when they allowed their firm to migrate away from pure “cigar-butt” value investing in the mold of Ben Graham toward an approach that embraced paying up for the right high-quality companies (including, today, a massive stake in Apple Inc).The Buffett-Munger anecdote is not unlike another that I heard recently from Greenlight Capital President David Einhorn, another legendary value investor, who spoke on my colleague Barry Ritholtz’s Masters in Business podcast.
 
The news published on the date February 26, 2024 10:13 AM IST with headline  India’s ‘No’ at WTO may just mean ‘Not Yet’ is: 
 It is the antiquated farm subsidy system that lies at the heart of India’s most intractable dispute at the WTO. As trade ministers gather at the World Trade Organization summit in Abu Dhabi this week, one of the villains will, as usual, be India. And, certainly, there’s some justice to the complaint that Indian negotiators are far too ready to block consensus at such confabs unless granted concessions on their own priorities. Saying “no” often comes too easily to them.But those priorities need to be viewed in the context of India’s fiendishly complicated domestic politics. This is a country the size of a continent, and achieving internal consensus on a drastic shift in policy is as hard — or harder — than getting agreement at the WTO.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPrime Minister Narendra Modi is the strongest, and most popular, leader India has had in decades. But he has always been particularly careful not to provoke widespread protests against his decisions. Although he hates to retract policies after investing political capital in them, he has twice in the past decade withdrawn legislation that enraged some of India’s farmers — a law early on in his tenure that would have made it easier to acquire agricultural land for industry, and a package of reforms in 2021 meant to liberalize India’s complicated farm subsidy system.India’s welfare state, as so many others, is not set up for modern concerns and problems. It induces rent-seeking, and that can hold New Delhi back when it comes to making international commitments. Agriculture — one of India’s most unreformed, unproductive and politically sensitive sectors, on which a majority of Indians continue to depend — is the one subject on which no Indian leader can concede abroad what they have not yet won democratically at home.It is this antiquated farm subsidy system that lies at the heart of India’s most intractable dispute at the WTO — its demand that temporary permission to hold large public stocks of foodgrain be made permanent.
 
The news published on the date February 26, 2024 09:49 AM IST with headline  WTO Ministerial Conference: India’s food security demands a strong stand on the ‘peace clause’ is: 
 Need to safeguard farmers’ livelihoods as well as public stockholdings to meet food security demands. The forthcoming ministerial conference of the World Trade Organisation at Abu Dhabi is being held in the shadow of a farmers’ agitation that revolves around several key issues that India seeks to resolve at this multilateral forum. These include the complexities of procurement prices and the need to safeguard farmers’ livelihoods as well as public stockholdings to meet food security needs. The consequent need for expanding limits on agricultural subsidies in emerging economies may also be examined during the trade body’s deliberations. Most of the themes that have underpinned the farmers’ protests will thus be part of the consultations.The big difference is that on the international stage, the minimum support price mechanism is viewed through the prism of subsidy limits laid down by the trade body. In contrast, the farmers unions spearheading the protests have sought a legal framework to expand rather than contain agricultural subsidies, They are seeking to widen the scope of government procurement and also provide a legal guarantee for minimum support prices.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOur Subsidies, Their SubsidiesAcceptance of their demands will push the subsidy for the farm sector way beyond the cap of ten percent of the value of production laid down at the multilateral trade body. Yet the agitation is, in a sense, timely as it tells the world that the pressure to provide farm subsidies is intensifying in emerging economies in order to raise incomes beyond subsistence levels for those ploughing the land.The developed world, on the other hand, continues to provide massive subsidies to its own farmers. The problem is that WTO rules do not allow for computing such subsidies on a per farmer basis. With Indian farmers estimated at over 95 million, the per farmer subsidy may be extremely low but this is not the criterion accepted at this forum. The result is that the global North is allowed to pay large subsidies to their farmers while those of the South face ceilings on such payouts.
 
The news published on the date February 26, 2024 09:47 AM IST with headline  Crompton Consumer Q3: A balanced risk-reward profile is: 
 Crompton Greaves Consumer Electricals posted a decent revenue growth. PRO Only Highlights - Quarterly performance largely backed by improved realisations - Medium-term triggers China plus and protectionist measures for tyre industry - Valuations not inexpensive; but improved medium-term outlook Highlights:ECD business continues to outperformWater heater becomes No. 1 product in e-commerceAgri pumps market share reaches 7-8%Butterfly struggling with multiple challengesTrading at 31 times FY25 estimated earningsIn Q3FY24, (CMP: Rs 293; Market cap: Rs 18,743 crore; Rating: Overweight) posted a decent revenue growth of 12 percent, attributed mainly to the outstanding performance of its electric consumer durables (ECD) business.However, EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation) margin declined by 160 basi
 
The news published on the date March 08, 2024 11:56 AM IST with headline  How badly will Sandeshkhali hurt Mamata Banerjee in the upcoming elections? is: 
 The Sandeshkhali incident has come as a big blow to the party. HighlightsAllegations of sexual harassment and land grabbing have surfaced at Sandeshkhali, near KolkataThe TMC leader of Sandeshkhali is on the runTMC’s image, already tarnished by corruption allegations, has been hurt badly by the revelationsThe BJP already has 55 percent of the Hindu vote in West BengalThere will be a close contest for each seat in the Lok Sabha elections between the BJP and the TMCThe contest will be one between Modi and Mamata Sandeshkhali, a small island i
 
The news published on the date February 26, 2024 10:57 AM IST with headline  Household Consumption Expenditure Survey 2022-23: Decoding who consumes how much is: 
 The data show that rural India is a bit more egalitarian when it comes to the distribution of consumption, but the pattern is not very different HighlightsThe all-India average monthly consumption spending per capita comes to Rs 3860 in rural India and Rs 6521 in urban IndiaThe top 30 percent accounts for 52.1 percent, or more than half of all urban consumptionThe bottom 40 percent accounts for just over a fifth of total consumption spending in urban India, less than the top 10 percentThe share of food in the consumption basket is 47.47 percent in rural India and 39.7 percent in urban IndiaTh
 
The news published on the date February 26, 2024 08:25 AM IST with headline  MC Pro Inside Edge: Desi Soros flogs HFCL, operators shift tack in low float PSUs, algo fest in Sundaram Multi, fallen IT angel back in spotlight is: 
 Majority of the PSU stocks may appear expensive, but the momentum for this space remains strong HFCL shares are quoting at their highest levels in over 22 years, with a 33 percent gain over the last month . Some credit should go to the Desi Soros of local mutual funds, who has been the stock’s biggest cheerleader among fellow fund managers. Desi Soros has publicly said that he is an opportunist investor (and not a momentum player, as peers and rivals decry). So, the market is unable to figure if the purchases ar
 
The news published on the date February 26, 2024 08:02 AM IST with headline  Agri growth in FY25 should be well above 3%, says MPC's Shashanka Bhide is: 
 Shashanka Bhide is one of the three external members on the Reserve Bank of India’s Monetary Policy Committee. India's agricultural sector may grow at more than 3 percent in 2024-25, Shashanka Bhide, one of the three external members on the Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) Monetary Policy Committee (MPC), has said."With a favourable monsoon, the key sub-sectors of agriculture and allied sectors should catch up with their long-term growth trend, besides the recovery from the dip we have seen this year. This would be a growth of well above 3 percent in 2024-25," Bhide told Moneycontrol following the release of the minutes of the February 6-8 meeting of the MPC on February 22.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: Govt survey finds per capita consumption spending up 33-40% in 2022-23 from 2011-12"Revival of consumption growth would be crucial for sustaining overall growth. The projected GDP growth reflects the revival of agriculture on the back of a good monsoon," he added, referring to the Indian central bank's GDP growth forecast of 7 percent for 2024-25.Per the statistics ministry's first advance estimate of growth, released on January 5, the 'agriculture, livestock, forestry, and fishing' industry is seen to be growing just 1.8 percent in 2023-24 — the lowest in eight years — due to the unseasonal and uneven rain caused by El Nino. Yet, the headline GDP growth rate is seen to be rising to 7.3 percent from 7.2 percent in 2022-23.
 
The news published on the date February 26, 2024 07:58 AM IST with headline  Consumer Expenditure Survey offers a look into the next CPI inflation series is: 
 The Household Consumer Expenditure Survey is crucial to updating the Consumer Price Index and the resultant headline inflation rate, which is currently based on the consumption patterns from 2011-12. The statistics ministry released the results of its 2022-23 (August-July) Consumer Expenditure Survey late on February 24. This finally provides data on the latest consumption patterns of Indians in rural and urban areas, with official statistics as well as researchers having had to work with data from the survey conducted in 2011-12 (July-June).The survey is crucial not just for the information it provides on the changing consumption patterns of Indians and their spending power but also in the restructuring of key economic indicators, such as the Consumer Price Index (CPI).Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe CPI-based inflation is the Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) target indicator, with the law mandating the central bank keep it at 4 percent in a band of 2-6 percent. However, given that the current CPI inflation series is based on the consumption patterns of the 2011-12 (July-June) CES, questions have been raised about how accurate the inflation measure really is.Also Read: How free PDS foodgrain, an old statistics manual caused havoc with CPI inflationThe CES is supposed to be held every five years. However, the latest iteration comes more than a decade later than the last one after the government had controversially junked the 2017-18 survey citing data quality issues, with financial daily Business Standard having reported in November 2019 that the draft report of the survey found consumer spending had fallen.
 
The news published on the date February 25, 2024 11:07 PM IST with headline  WTO: Most G-33 nations including India push for permanent solution on food security issues is: 
 The G-33 members expressed regret over serious lack of progress in agriculture trade negotiations (Reuters file image) Majority of G-33 nations, which is a coalition of developing countries in the World Trade Organization (WTO), urged all members of the WTO to agree and adopt a permanent solution on the issue of public stockholding for food security purposes."The vast majority of the G-33 Members recognised the critical importance of public stockholding for food security purposes for developing country members, including least developed countries (LDCs) and net food-importing developing countries (NFIDCs), in meeting food and livelihood security, as well as rural development imperative, including supporting low income or resource poor producers," according to a ministerial statement on Agriculture Trade Negotiations released on February 25.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA number of countries have formed coalitions in the WTO. These groups often speak with one voice using a single coordinator or negotiating team. These are some of the most active groups in the WTO.The G-33 also called “Friends of Special Products”, is one such coalition of developing countries pressing for flexibility to undertake limited market opening in agriculture. India, China and Indonesia are part of this group that comprises 47 countries.The G-33 members also expressed regret over serious lack of progress in agriculture trade negotiations, including to fulfil the outstanding mandates of previous ministerial conferences.
 
The news published on the date February 25, 2024 03:03 PM IST with headline  India's GDP growth may have moderated to 6.5% in October-December is: 
 The Indian economy had grown at a faster-than-expected 7.6 percent in July-September, leading to a raft of upward revisions in growth forecasts for 2023-24, including by the Reserve Bank of India. India's GDP growth likely declined to 6.5 percent in October-December 2023 from 7.6 percent the previous quarter, a Moneycontrol survey of 10 economists showed.India's GDP had grown just 4.5 percent in the third quarter of 2022-23.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe statistics ministry will release GDP data for October-December 2023 at 5:30pm on February 29. It will also release its second advance growth estimate for 2023-24 as a whole, as well as the first, second, and third revised estimates of growth for 2022-23, 2021-22, and 2020-21, respectively.Also Read: Economy continues to sustain momentum of first half of FY24, says RBI bulletinIn its first advance estimate, the statistics ministry had pegged GDP growth for the current financial year at 7.3 percent. Economists polled by Moneycontrol see this being lowered to 6.9 percent in the second advance estimate.
 
The news published on the date February 26, 2024 12:36 AM IST with headline  Govt survey finds per capita consumption spending up 33-40% in 2022-23 from 2011-12 is: 
 The Household Consumer Expenditure Survey is crucial to updating the Consumer Price Index and the resultant headline inflation rate, which is currently based on the consumption patterns from 2011-12. India's per capita monthly consumption expenditure was 33-40 percent higher in 2022-23 (August-July) compared to 2011-12 (July-June), according to the findings of the government's latest Household Consumer Expenditure Survey, released late on February 24.Interestingly, while per capita monthly consumption in rural areas was 40 percent higher in 2022-23 at Rs 2,008, it was up 33 percent in urban areas at Rs 3,510 after adjusting for inflation.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: MPC's Ashima Goyal says CPI basket needs updating, core inflation may be better target2022-23 MPCE (without imputation)2011-12 MPCE (without imputation)% changeRURALRs 2,008Rs 1,43040%URBANRs 3,510Rs 2,63033%This represents an average annual growth of 3.1 percent for rural per capita consumption and 2.7 percent for its urban counterpart. Over the same period, India's real GDP has grown by 5.7 percent on average each year.This is the first of two back-to-back Consumer Expenditure Surveys (CES) being done by the statistics ministry, with the second one currently being conducted for the 12 months starting August 2023. The survey is crucial to updating the Consumer Price Index (CPI) and the resultant headline inflation rate, which is still based on consumption patterns from the 2011-12 survey.The ministry had conducted one such survey in 2017-18 (July-June), but the government controversially junked it citing issues with the quality of data after the financial daily Business Standard reported in November 2019 that the draft report of the survey found consumer spending had fallen. The junking of the survey and not making its results public made it impossible to update India's CPI inflation data.Moneycontrol had exclusively reported in August 2023 that the statistics ministry was mulling alternative ways to revise the CPI inflation series if the results of the ongoing CES were not made available again.
 
The news published on the date February 24, 2024 12:25 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Weekender: Dragons, AI, global economy, and markets is: 
 Securities allotted in a QIP are subject to a lock-in period of six months from the date of allotment. Dear Reader,"In the realm of AI's vast potential,Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIt solves puzzles quite consequential.With algorithms bright,It shines a guiding light,
 
The news published on the date February 23, 2024 11:45 PM IST with headline  Stocks lose steam as Nvidia optimism fades, dollar steady is: 
 Stocks lose steam as Nvidia optimism fades, dollar steady A gauge of global equity markets lost steam on Friday after setting a new intraday high as optimism over Nvidia's results faded while the dollar index was steady as Federal Reserve officials indicated rate cuts will come later than expected.Wall Street's main indexes earlier extended gains as Nvidia shot above $2 trillion in market value for the first time, driven by the AI frenzy that has gripped markets since the chipmaker's blockbuster quarterly report two days earlier.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdNvidia later traded little changed, last up about 1%.Equity markets also advanced after data showed US services sector growth picked up in January as new orders increased and employment rebounded, though a measure of input prices rising to an 11-month high.MSCI's all-country world index, a gauge of stock performance worldwide, was up 0.14% after earlier shooting to a new high.
 
The news published on the date February 24, 2024 02:12 AM IST with headline  Gold gains on dollar weakens, US rate cut hopes dim is: 
 Gold gains on dollar weakens, US rate cut hopes dim Gold prices were set for a weekly gain on Friday, buoyed by a softer dollar as US Federal Reserve officials bruised hopes of early interest rate cuts this year and safe-haven demand amid Middle East tensions.Spot gold was up 0.6% to $2,036.39 per ounce as of 11:35 ET (1635 GMT), and was on track for a 1.1% weekly rise.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdUS gold futures were 0.6% higher at $2,043.4 per ounce.The dollar index was heading for its first weekly dip in almost two months and US Treasury yields was also down for the week, making greenback-priced bullion less expensive to overseas buyers. [USD/]"Gold is up primarily on the fact that the US dollar is a little weaker," said Bob Haberkorn, senior market strategist at RJO Futures.
 
The news published on the date February 23, 2024 11:38 PM IST with headline  Oil set for weekly decline with Fed in no rush to cut rates is: 
 Oil set for weekly decline with Fed in no rush to cut rates Oil prices fell more than 2% on Friday and were on track for a weekly decline after the US central bank indicated interest rate cuts could be delayed by at least two more months.Brent crude futures were down $1.89, or 2.3%, at $81.78 a barrel at 12:00 p.m. EST (1700 GMT), while US West Texas Intermediate crude futures were down $1.88, or 2.4%, to $76.73.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFor the week, Brent is set to decline about 2% and the US benchmark is on track to fall about 3%. However, indications of healthy fuel demand and supply concerns could revive prices in the coming days.US Federal Reserve policymakers should delay interest rate cuts by at least another couple of months, Fed Governor Christopher Waller said on Thursday, which could slow economic growth and curb oil demand."The entire energy complex is reacting, because if inflation begins to come back it will slow demand for energy products," said Tim Snyder, economist at Matador Economics.
 
The news published on the date February 23, 2024 06:42 PM IST with headline  Business in the Week Ahead (February 26-March 1, 2024) is: 
 - Which way is India’s growth trajectory moving? All eyes are on NSO’s second advance estimate on India’s national income, which has pencilled in GDP growth of 7.3 percent for this financial year.Will it be above the psychologically significant 7 percent mark? Well, a key part of that goal depends on the private sector going the extra mile to do the heavy lifting on the capex front. And that has been made unequivocally clea
 
The news published on the date February 23, 2024 07:50 PM IST with headline  India's forex reserves decline to $616 billion, lowest in two months is: 
 India’s foreign exchange reserves are primarily made up of the Reserve Bank of India’s holdings of foreign currency assets and gold. India's foreign exchange reserves declined to $616.10 billion as on February 16, data released by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on February 23 showed.At $616.10 billion, the forex reserves were down $1.13 billion from the previous week. However, it follows an even larger decline of $5.24 billion in the week ended February 9, resulting in the latest figure being the lowest in two months.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: India faces 'problem of plenty' from FX inflows post index inclusion, US rate cutsThe reserves were last lower when they stood at $615.97 billion as on December 15.The break-up of the forex reserves as of February 16 is as follows:Foreign currency assets: $545.78 billion, down $740 million week-on-weekGold: $47.38 billion, down $362 million week-on-weekSpecial Drawing Rights: $18.11 billion, down $28 million week-on-weekReserve position in the International Monetary Fund: $4.83 billion, down $1 million week-on-weekChanges to the foreign exchange reserves occur from the sale or purchase of foreign assets as well as the appreciation or depreciation of the currencies they are denominated in. The RBI's stated stance is to only intervene in the market to prevent sharp volatility in the rupee's exchange rate.
 
The news published on the date February 23, 2024 04:17 PM IST with headline  GSTN to share data with RBI's frictionless credit platform is: 
 GSTN to share data with RBI's frictionless credit platform The government has permitted GST Network to share data about GST-registered businesses, based on their consent, with the Reserve Bank's 'Public Tech Platform for Frictionless Credit'.The move will help entities get loans faster on the basis of shared Goods and Services Tax (GST)-related information.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe platform, created by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) subsidiary Reserve Bank Innovation Hub, is intended to enable seamless flow of necessary information to lenders to help in disbursing credit.In a notification, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has said "the Central Government, on the recommendation of the Council, notifies 'Public Tech Platform for Frictionless Credit' as the system with which information may be shared by the common portal based on consent…".The platform has been developed for the operation of a large ecosystem of credit, to ensure access of information from various data sources digitally.
 
The news published on the date February 23, 2024 05:04 PM IST with headline  Taking Stock: Markets end flat after hitting new highs, PSU banks take a knock is: 
 Investors avoided taking long positions ahead of gross domestic product data for Q3 on February 29 Indian equity benchmarks ended flat on February 23 after hitting new highs in the early trade as banking stocks bled and investors turned cautious ahead of the release of the GDP numbers along with other data.The 30-pack Sensex, which climbed a new peak of 73,394.44, gave up the gains to close 0.02 percent lower at 73,142.80. The broad-based Nifty, too, ended 0.02 percent down at 22,212.70 after touching a new high of 22,297.50.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdInvestors avoided taking long positions ahead of GPD data, fiscal deficit numbers for January and eight infrastructure industries data to be released on February 29.A Bloomberg poll pegs the GDP at 6.8 percent for the third quarter.Top Nifty gainers included Bajaj Finserv, up 1.5 percent, followed by SBI Life and HDFC Life, advancing 1.4 percent and 1.1 percent.
 
The news published on the date February 23, 2024 09:42 PM IST with headline  The Reading List: February 23, 2024 is: 
 A selection of articles and social media gems from the world of economy, business and finance. (Source: Shutterstock) In a world strapped for time, we thought you may find it useful to have a selection of articles we read this past week. As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. Occasionally, we may stray from these subjects.These links may be from external websites we frequent o
 
The news published on the date February 23, 2024 04:12 PM IST with headline  Rupee falls 8 paise to close at 82.93 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee falls 8 paise to close at 82.93 against US dollar The rupee consolidated in a narrow range and depreciated by 8 paise to close at 82.93 (provisional) against the US dollar on Friday, tracking a strong American currency and muted trend in domestic equities. Forex traders said the Indian currency depreciated as foreign fund outflows weighed on the rupee.At the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 82.87 and finally settled at 82.93 (provisional) against the dollar, down by 8 paise from its previous close. During the day, the rupee witnessed a range-bound movement. It saw an intra-day high of 82.84 and a low of 82.96 against the American currency.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn Thursday, the rupee had settled at 82.85 against the US dollar. The Indian rupee depreciated on Friday on dollar demand from importers. Elevated crude oil prices also weighed on the rupee, said Anuj Choudhary, Research Analyst, Sharekhan by BNP Paribas."We expect the rupee to trade with a slight positive bias on positive global equities and soft US dollar. However, any bounce back in crude oil prices may cap sharp upside. Geopolitical tension in the Middle East may put pressure on rupee at higher levels," Choudhary said, adding that USD-INR spot price is expected to trade in a range of Rs 82.60 to Rs 83.10. The dollar index, which gauges the greenback's strength against a basket of six currencies, was 0.05 per cent up at 104.00.Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, was trading 1.33 per cent lower to USD 82.56 per barrel. On the domestic equity market front, Sensex declined 15.44 points, or 0.02 per cent, to settle at 73,142.80 points. The Nifty fell 4.75 points, or 0.02 per cent, to 22,212.70 points.
 
The news published on the date February 23, 2024 03:41 PM IST with headline  Japan's stock-market mojo rubs off on me is: 
 The Nikkei 225’s 50 percent surge over the past year is largely homegrown. Well I never. Seeing the Nikkei 225 index make a new high, 34 short years later, is a bit of a milestone. The world's second-largest stock market has got its mojo rising at last. After quadrupling over the past decade, and rising 16 percent in 2024 so far, the burning question is whether this is another bubble moment or genuinely part of a proper renaissance? Forgive me for making this personal, but I'm a believer!Having started as a graduate trader in London at a Japanese bank, I was plunged right into the tail end of the 1980s real estate-driven equity boom. Thankfully, I skipped most of the remorseless unraveling of the Japanese miracle for the next 15 years, putting it down to a surreal first-job experience. Even as recently as 2012, after a decade of working at other Japanese banks, including a spell in Tokyo, the economy there reverted toward deflation, with the stock market again condemned to irrelevance. But once an old Japan hand, it's with you for life, so faith has returned.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThere's a different conviction behind this revaluation of Japanese assets. A rich seam of systemic change is waiting to be mined for opportunities, meaning no longer can it be skipped over in favour of Greater China. This time, Japan Inc really wants to scramble out of its hole and take advantage of the weakening position of its dominant Asian rival. Former Premier Shinzo Abe's famous three arrows of reform are belatedly hitting their targets. Cultural change is happening with more consistent wage rises, less resistance to mergers and acquisitions and a return to steady inflation.There are, of course, similarities with the US stock market's recent stellar run. Japan's own Seven Samurai, cherry-picked by Goldman Sachs Group Inc, are undoubtedly buoyed by the Nvidia Corp effect. However, the Nikkei 225’s 50 percent surge over the past year is largely homegrown. It's coming from a markedly different valuation — even at 16 times price-to-forward earnings, it's still a bargain compared with the S&P 500 index's more than 20 times — and in a different galaxy to the peak it had reached (70 times) in 1989.Though there's growing foreign investor participation, it's not a patch yet on the glory years of the early 2000s, and again in 2013, when US and European investors consistently drove the majority of volume. Warren Buffett may have fired the latest starting gun in August 2020 by investing heavily in Japan's unique trading houses, but that was also an undervalued commodity play.
 
The news published on the date February 23, 2024 03:32 PM IST with headline  Smartphones for kids were a Faustian bargain is: 
 It is easy to understand why smartphones have such a deleterious effect on young minds. (Source: Bloomberg) It would be difficult to pinpoint the moment the smartphone took control of my life. Like Japanese knotweed, it grew surreptitiously in my mental garden, gradually throttling other forms of attention until it had insinuated itself into almost every activity. I check my screen time rarely, but I remember a sense of vague discomfort a few years ago on seeing that it had passed a daily average of six hours. Recently, it stood at more than 11.Two decades ago, it seemed unimaginable that we might carry with us a handheld device that could be simultaneously: a phone; TV; radio; music player; shop; newspaper; book; map; wallet; bank; game console; admission ticket; calculator and translator. Among many other things, too numerous to list. I have used my phone as a tape measure, to identify plants and to prove my identity to the government. It was inevitable that access to such power and convenience would exact a price. Increasingly, it appears the most unanticipated and unacceptable has been our children’s mental health.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIt took the murder of a high school student in northwest England for me to admit to myself that I have a problem. The case, which saw the teenage killers of transgender 16-year-old Brianna Ghey jailed this month, has acted as the trigger for a national debate over children’s use of technology. The victim’s addiction to social media made her a vulnerable target, while one of the fellow students who stabbed her testified to having viewed torture and murder videos on the dark web via mobile phone. Ghey’s mother is campaigning for under-16s to be barred from accessing social media apps. The UK government, responding to public pressure, issued new guidelines this week on preventing mobile-phone use in schools.This rare and grisly event has helped draw attention to the far more commonplace and pervasive damage that smartphones, and particularly social media apps, do to the psychological and emotional well-being of young people. There is a burgeoning academic literature, and it is horrifying. Study after study has laid out evidence of an international epidemic of mental illness. Rates of anxiety, depression, attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder, anorexia and other conditions have soared since 2012, which happens to be just around the time when smartphones became ubiquitous. Girls are particularly at risk.Correlation isn’t causation. But there is no other explanation that fits the data. The global nature of the decline in mental health stands as strong confirming evidence. American students might have other reasons for anxiety — school shootings, say — but that wouldn’t explain why the same trend might be observed in New Zealand or Brazil. Moreover, the younger a child gets a smartphone, the bigger the subsequent impact. Among women who acquired their first smartphone at age six, 74 percent had mental well-being scores that classed them as “distressed” or “struggling,” a global study of 27,969 people aged 18 to 24 by Washington-based nonprofit Sapien Labs reported last year. That fell to 46 percent for those who received their first device at 18. (The corresponding score for men was 42 percent at age six versus 36 percent at 18.)
 
The news published on the date February 23, 2024 05:04 PM IST with headline  Putin’s war is decimating the Russian economy  is: 
 Vladimir Putin has radically changed course, both to fund the war and to prop up the economy amid Western sanctions. Vladimir Putin wants the world to believe that Russia’s economy is doing fine, and that he has the wherewithal to prosecute the war in Ukraine indefinitely.He’s bluffing. His aggression is costing him dearly, and the West should exploit this vulnerability to the fullest.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBefore invading Ukraine — two years ago, on Feb. 24 — Putin had painstakingly built Russia’s fiscal and financial defenses, a crucial element of his own grasp on power. At just 16 percent of gross domestic product, sovereign debt was among the smallest of any nation. In the second year of the pandemic, the government was already running a budget surplus (in contrast to large and persistent deficits in the US and Europe). It had accumulated a $175 billion “national wellbeing” fund and more than $500 billion in international reserves at its central bank. The largest banks were well capitalised compared with their global peers.Now, Putin has radically changed course, both to fund the war and to prop up the economy amid Western sanctions. Military spending has gone from 3.6 percent of GDP in 2021 to an estimated 7.1 percent, boosting production of everything from artillery shells to computers. Soldiers’ salaries and death benefits have lifted the fortunes of the poorest families. More than $130 billion in subsidised loans have enabled Russians to splurge on new apartments, contributing to a boom in construction. As a result, real GDP growth rebounded to 3.6 percent last year, defying predictions of a protracted recession.Yet the limits to such “military Keynesianism” are already evident. The war’s consumption of able-bodied workers has driven the unemployment rate to an extreme low of 2.9 percent, forcing civilian industries to pay more for scarce labour. To keep inflation in check, the central bank has had to hike its benchmark interest rate to 16 percent, further squeezing the private sector. Military spending won’t keep adding to GDP growth: Just maintaining it at the current level would require big sacrifices in other important areas, such as social spending and much-needed infrastructure maintenance. Without the war-related stimulus, Russia’s economic performance would look much less impressive.
 
The news published on the date February 23, 2024 03:11 PM IST with headline  Punjab Budget: Will 2024-25 see a course correction of the last Budget’s failures? is: 
 Punjab is at a crucial crossroad, necessitating a thoughtful examination of how government policies can sculpt the state's economic landscape and foster growth. In his address during the Indian Economic Summit in 2005, former PM Manmohan Singh posited that the impediments to India’s economic expansion were no longer external but predominantly internal. It is in this context, that a review of state-level commitments for future growth becomes crucial in the case of Punjab, historically celebrated as a pioneer state; but, in recent years, has experienced an undeniable erosion of its once preeminent status.A sectoral analysis of the budgetary commitments for financial year 2023-24, the state’s economic survey, and the Vision 2047 document tells us that Punjab might not be doing enough to align the state’s present with its future.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSidestepping Fiscal Consolidation An analysis of the fiscal profile of the state apprises us of visible gaps between state commitments and future aspirations. Vision 2047 describes the precarious situation of the state marked with mounting debt and an increasing fiscal deficit. To correct this state of affairs, Punjab aims to cut down the state revenue expenditure to less than 60 percent (Vision 2047).Ironically, the state numbers do not indicate a similar trajectory. Clamping down on subsidies is one critical way of improving fiscal health. However, the amount allocated for power subsidies in the state saw a 143 percent increase under the revised estimates for FY 2022-23 as compared to budget estimate FY 2023-24. Similarly, for rice seeing subsidies, revised estimates for FY 2022-23–pegged at Rs 26.71 crore saw an increase to Rs 63 crore under the budget estimates for FY 2023-24.
 
The news published on the date February 23, 2024 03:05 PM IST with headline  India does not rush into trade agreements if it is not fair, balanced, equitable: Piyush Goyal is: 
 India does not rush into trade agreements if it is not fair, balanced, equitable: Piyush Goyal India does not 'rush' into any Free Trade Agreement (FTA) if the pact is not equitable, balanced, and fair for the country, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal on Friday said.He said that the ground realities in India have changed now and the offers made by partner countries in these agreements are "not at all" comparable to what India is offering to the world.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt present, negotiations for FTAs with the UK, Oman, and the four-nation European Free Trade Association (EFTA) are nearing conclusion.EFTA members are Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, and Switzerland.The minister also said that India should never rush for trade negotiations as they are going to impact the country for years and years to come.
 
The news published on the date February 23, 2024 02:38 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Welcome to the rate cut bingo! is: 
 There is a tamer play to figure out the puzzle that is the timing of rate cuts. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIt is Friday and we are at the end of this week’s game of rate cut bets across the world. This week is special because central bankers were participants in this game. Both the US Federal Reserve and the Reserve Bank of India released the minutes of their latest policy meet. The minutes gave a peak into what members thought and perhaps what a bingo game would look like if they played.Markets were more than happy to place their bets on who would blink first, or whether the triple stare contest between markets, the Fed and the RBI would ever end.While equity markets invariably make us picture a Vegas-style casino arcade, there is a tamer play to figure out the puzzle that is the timing of rate cuts. A game of bingo should do us good here. The classic bingo consists of numbers randomly arranged in 25 square tiles and as the host calls out numbers, the participants can strike them out on their card. A strike through a row, vertically, horizontally, or diagonally, is a win.
 
The news published on the date February 23, 2024 12:24 PM IST with headline  Indian steel mills seek iron ore export ban as China sales jump is: 
 Indian steel mills seek iron ore export ban as China sales jump Smaller steelmakers in India are pressing for a ban on exports of iron ore, after a surge in sales to Chinese mills pushed up local prices.Indian exports jumped 170% to 44 million tons last year — most of which went to China — at a time when domestic demand for the raw material is rising. That’s prompted the worst-affected sections of the industry to seek restrictions from the authorities to protect their margins.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“We have asked the government to ban exports of all forms of iron ore — otherwise China’s steel industry will run and ours will shut,” Anil Nachrani, president of the Chhattisgarh Sponge Iron Manufacturers Association, said in a phone interview this week. “India should be an exporter of steel and not iron ore,” he said.Nachrani said smaller mills in at least five major manufacturing states have banded together to lobby the steel ministry after many became loss-making. Second-tier producers, which account for about 40% of nationwide output, have been paying almost four times more than bigger operations, he said. India’s top mills can negotiate better prices for inputs like iron ore and coal and often have their own mines.
 
The news published on the date February 23, 2024 12:24 PM IST with headline  Consumer or exchequer - who will win after GST compensation cess expiry? is: 
 The interim Budget presented on February 1 said that the compensation cess collected in 2024-25 would be used to pre-pay the back-to-back GST loans to the tune of Rs 1.24 lakh crore. The Centre could face the challenge of choosing between the consumers and filling its own coffers, once it clears the Goods and Services Tax (GST) loans.With COVID-19 hitting economic activity and tax collections, the Centre had borrowed Rs 1.1 lakh crore in 2020-21 and Rs 1.59 lakh crore in 2021-22 to bridge the deficit in the GST compensation cess fund to ensure that states received the guaranteed 14 percent growth in their tax revenues under the new indirect tax regime.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhile the five-year protected revenue period ended in June 2022, it was decided the cess would stay in place until March 2026 to help repay the loans.But what happens starting April 2026, when the cess ceases to exist? Quite simply, prices of goods on which the cess is levied should reduce and become cheaper for consumers.To be sure, the items on which the compensation cess is levied are considered sin or luxury goods and include tobacco products, soft drinks, and motor vehicles. For instance, SUVs attract a cess of 22 percent over and above the highest GST rate of 28 percent. After March 2026, these vehicles – and all other goods that attract compensation cess – should become cheaper.
 
The news published on the date February 23, 2024 11:46 AM IST with headline  GST Cess Explained: A Comprehensive Overview is: 
 Introduced in July 2017, GST replaced a myriad of central and state taxes. In the complex landscape of taxation in India, the goods and services tax (GST) stands out as a significant reform aimed at simplifying the indirect tax structure. Introduced in July 2017, GST replaced a myriad of central and state taxes, aiming to create a unified market across the country. Within this framework, there exists a mechanism known as GST cess.Moneycontrol examines the need and impact of GST cess.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhat is GST cess?The cess is an additional levy imposed on certain goods and services over and above standard GST. Unlike GST, which is collected to fund the operations of both central and state governments, revenue generated from GST cess is earmarked for a specific purpose: to compensate states for revenue loss incurred due to the implementation of GST or to fund specific projects or sectors.Purpose of GST cess
 
The news published on the date February 23, 2024 10:13 AM IST with headline  Ola Electric’s IPO plans prove that EVs trump ride-hailing as an investment is: 
 Given that the ride-hailing business is fast becoming a race to the bottom, Bhavish Aggarwal may have decided to temper his expectations from his first baby HighlightsOla’s ride hailing business hasn’t taken off as expected in IndiaThe start-up’s electric vehicle business holds promise and is going for an IPO to test investor interestBhavish Aggarwal has had to shutter many business lines over the past year due to high operational costCompeting with Uber on ride-hailing has made it difficult for Ola to reach profitabilityFor Ola, its EV business could offer the much needed balance as the ride hailin
 
The news published on the date February 23, 2024 09:33 AM IST with headline  China has a quant quake because there’s no Citadel is: 
 The government has since banned major institutional investors from net selling at the open and close of each trading day. (Source: Bloomberg) China is tightening the grip over quantitative trading after experiencing its own version of a “quant quake,” a reference to the summer of 2007 when a number of high-profile and successful US-based hedge funds suffered outsized losses.The Shanghai and Shenzhen bourses froze the accounts of Ningbo Lingjun Investment Management Partnership for three days after the hedge fund dumped 2.57 billion yuan ($360 million) in shares at the open on Monday. That morning, just as traders returned from a week-long Lunar New Year holiday to a jittery market that had barely recovered from a major rout earlier in the month, the blue-chip CSI 300 Index slipped as much as 0.9 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdChina’s quant funds are faltering this year. A flagship product at Lingjun tumbled 11.75 percent in January, wiping out 2023’s 9.21 percent gain. Some of its peers fared even worse, losing as much as 30 percent. It was a humbling experience for a sector that outperformed the market last year with a solid 6.4 percent average gain.Clearly wary of selloff pressure, the government has since banned major institutional investors from net selling at the open and close of each trading day. Separately, the exchanges said they would monitor more closely leveraged quant products and algorithmic trading.Fingers were pointed at quants’ outsized exposure to small-cap stocks, the epicenter of this year’s rout. Barely covered by sell-side analysts, these companies may offer excess returns. But given they are also thin in liquidity and trading volume, one manager’s selling can cause an avalanche.
 
The news published on the date February 23, 2024 02:24 PM IST with headline  MC Interview: Delta Corp planning Rs 1,100 crore investment in offline business over two years is: 
 Delta Corp Chief Financial Officer Anil Malani Gaming and hospitality company Delta Corp is rejigging its expansion plans post the increased GST rate of 28 percent on online gaming and casinos. The company is planning to invest Rs 1,100 crore in its offline business over the next two years to get back to a profit margin of at least 38 percent, Chief Financial Officer Anil Malani told Moneycontrol. The company’s margins had been hit by the COVID-19 pandemic and higher tax.“We are looking at Rs 1,100 crore investment over the next 18-30 months. The company’s net margins will go back to 36-38 percent by the middle of financial year 2025-26. In fact, the margins will be better than what we were doing earlier,” Malani said during the interview.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdDelta Corp has put its online gaming expansion plans on hold after the GST rate was hiked to 28 percent. It is also battling a Rs 24,000 crore GST evasion notice in the courts. The company has also rejigged its casino business expansion plan because of the new GST structure, and has decided to go slow on building an integrated resort.The Rs 1,100 crore investment plan for the next couple of years includes a new offshore casino ship, a new hotel with a casino and a theme park in Goa.“The new offshore ship will be at an investment of Rs 300 crore; a new 450-room hotel for our players will be at an investment of Rs 450 crore, and a water theme park will be at another Rs 350 crore. This is committed and will happen,” he said.
 
The news published on the date February 23, 2024 09:19 AM IST with headline  Nomura signals discord in RBI MPC, sees more rate cut votes ahead is: 
 The brokerage anticipates at least two out of six MPC members to vote for a cut in upcoming meetings. Nomura predicts a rise in dissenters within the Monetary Policy Committee in the next Reserve Bank of India's bi-monthly meetings, signalling potential rifts among RBI members on the economic outlook. The brokerage anticipates at least two out of six MPC members to vote for a cut in the upcoming meetings.Earlier in its February meeting, the RBI MPC, for the first time, saw a dissent from external member Prof Jayanth Varma, who opposed the status quo in policy rate and continued to dissent against the "withdrawal of accommodation" stance.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdVarma argued that with a projected 4.5 percent inflation for FY25, a 2 percent real rate is unnecessary, suggesting 1-1.5 percent is sufficient, allowing for potential rate cuts of 50-100 basis points. He also sees room for easing, given the government's strong fiscal consolidation and his belief in a negative output gap.External member Dr Ashima Goyal, supporting a pause, envisions potential for cuts. However, RBI members, led by Deputy Governor Michael Patra, resist premature policy easing, signalling a subtle pivot from advocating tight monetary policy. In summary, Nomura interprets the minutes as leaning dovish.Nomura believes that Dr Ashima Goyal is leaning towards advocating a rate cut, proposing a wait-and-see approach for geopolitical or commodity shocks. If short-lived, she sees no necessity to maintain high rates, given the inflation projection of 4.5 percent, providing the "room to cut". On the other hand, Dr Bhide emphasises the importance of sustained focus on achieving the inflation target and highlights incomplete policy transmission. Overall, it appears that two out of three external MPC members agree that such high real rates are unnecessary, it added.
 
The news published on the date February 23, 2024 09:37 AM IST with headline  MC Pro Inside Edge: Bulls bet on TFCI open offer, HNIs take shine to Whirlpool, the new currency for merchant bankers, a religious trip is: 
 - Ticket to rideShares of Tourism Finance Corporation (TFCI) continued to rally on Thursday, hitting the upper end of the 5 percent intra-day circuit filter after there were only buyers. Punters are loading up on the stock, in the hope that there will be an open offer from Aditya Kumar Halwasiya, the promoter of Cupid, who earlier this week picked up a 13 percent stake in the company. This diarist learns that Halwasiya and his associates plan t
 
The news published on the date February 23, 2024 09:50 AM IST with headline  Why India’s attempt to regulate coaching schools is doomed to fail is: 
 The department of consumer affairs put out draft guidelines last week, aimed at preventing misleading advertising by coaching centres. (Illustration by Suneesh K) The Union Education Ministry has launched a well-intentioned, if belated attempt to reign in India’s mammoth private tuition and coaching centre business. Under guidelines notified late last month, all such establishments – estimates put the numbers of such private sector cram schools at anywhere between 50,000 and 1 lakh in India – now have to be registered with the ministry. And in order to get registered, they need to meet certain minimum criteria on quality and infrastructure.Th
 
The news published on the date February 23, 2024 08:27 AM IST with headline  Private capex is seeing action heat up, here’s a road map for investors is: 
 As corporates build up capacity, employment is likely to pick up as a consequence The RBI’s latest bulletin has once again brought private capital expenditure into focus. Even as India has emerged as one of the bright spots against a gloomy global economic backdrop, India’s growth has been primarily driven by the government’s capital expenditure. Meanwhile, private investment has been sitting on the fence. RBI has urged the corporate sector to get its act together and take the baton from the government by making investments towards the next leg of growth.Privat
 
The news published on the date February 22, 2024 11:25 PM IST with headline  Gold slips as dollar firms after US data signals resilient economy is: 
 Gold slips as dollar firms after US data signals resilient economy Gold prices fell from a near two-week high on Thursday, driven by a firm US dollar after jobless claims data indicated a strong economy, while investors awaited further economic data for guidance on the US Federal Reserve's interest rate stance.Spot gold lost 0.1% to $2,024.01 an ounce by 10:56 a.m. ET (1556 GMT), after hitting its highest since Feb. 9 of $2034.69 earlier in the session. US gold futures was steady at $2,033.50.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"We see gold stay at these levels and there is more downside risks to gold in the short term than upside" if we get more positive data on the US economy and if inflation doesn't continue to ease, said Chris Gaffney, president of world markets at EverBank.The dollar gained 0.1% after data showed the number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits unexpectedly fell last week, suggesting that job growth likely remained solid in February.A stronger dollar makes bullion expensive for other currency holders.
 
The news published on the date February 22, 2024 11:14 PM IST with headline  Oil rises on shipping tensions but US inventory build caps gains is: 
 Oil rises on shipping tensions but US inventory build caps gains Oil futures rose on Thursday as attacks continued on shipping in the Red Sea near Yemen but a large build in US crude inventories curbed gains.Brent crude futures were up 51 cents to $83.54 a barrel at 11:49 ET (1649 GMT). US West Texas Intermediate crude futures were up 64 cents at $78.55 a barrel.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTwo missiles were fired at a vessel off the southeast coast of Yemen on Thursday, causing a fire onboard, British maritime agencies said, as Houthis keep up attacks on shipping to show support for Palestinians in the Gaza war."[Hostilities] in and around the Red Sea by Iran-backed Houthi rebels on commercial ships are guaranteed to continue keeping the geopolitical risk premium at an elevated level," PVM Oil's Tamas Varga said.Even so, a jump in crude inventories last week following refinery maintenance and outages limited gains.
 
The news published on the date February 22, 2024 04:45 PM IST with headline  Rupee rises 13 paise to close at 82.83 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee rises 13 paise to close at 82.83 against US dollar The rupee appreciated 13 paise to close at 82.83 (provisional) against the US dollar on Thursday, tracking the weakness of the American currency in the overseas market and positive domestic equities. Forex traders said elevated crude oil prices weighed on the local unit and restricted a sharp uptick.At the interbank foreign exchange, the local unit opened at 82.94 against the greenback. It hit an intraday high of 82.83 during the day. The domestic unit finally settled at 82.83 (provisional) against the dollar, higher by 13 paise from its previous close of 82.96.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Indian rupee appreciated on Thursday on weak US dollar and mixed-to-positive domestic markets, said Anuj Choudhary, Research Analyst, Sharekhan by BNP Paribas. However, a surge in crude oil prices capped sharp gains. The US dollar declined on rise in risk appetite in global markets and positive European markets ahead of PMI data from Eurozone and Germany.Analysts attributed the retreating dollar index to the US Federal Reserve's minutes that reflected policy makers' cautious approach, ebbing the possibility of interest rate cuts in the immediate future. "The Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) minutes released on Wednesday were slightly hawkish," Choudhary said.Meanwhile, the dollar index, which gauges the greenback's strength against a basket of six currencies, was trading 0.31 per cent lower at 103.68. Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, rose 0.37 per cent to USD 83.34 per barrel.
 
The news published on the date February 22, 2024 04:05 PM IST with headline  India Ratings pegs FY25 GDP growth at 6.5%, says signs 'bullish' for private capex is: 
 Continued reforms should maintain India's status of being the fastest-growing large economy, Jefferies Equity Research outlook said India's GDP is expected to grow by 6.5 percent in 2024-25, according to India Ratings and Research. While this would represent a decline from the statistics ministry's first advance estimate of 7.3 percent for the current financial year, the prospect of the private investment cycle bodes well for the economy."Private corporate sector investment has been down and out for nearly a decade," said Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist at India Ratings, on February 22.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"But when we look at lead indicators, all of them are indicating that at the current juncture the private corporate sector is once again becoming more bullish about investments. It may or may not be happening on the ground in the way we would like it to, but some flavour of that has already started becoming clearer at least in terms of intentions and the way they (corporates) are now approaching banks to finance their projects," Sinha added.According to India Ratings, Rs 3.53 lakh crore was raised in 2022-23 to finance a total of 982 large projects – those of over Rs 1,000 crore. This is significantly higher than the Rs 1.98 lakh crore raised to finance 791 such projects in 2021-22.According to Sinha, while its still "early days" for the private capex cycle, companies are also gaining confidence from their belief that the likelihood of another shock is low, with the last few years seeing several of them, such as the Covid pandemic and Russia's invasion of Ukraine. With demand picking up, capacity utilisation in the private sector should start rising from the current aggregate level of 75 percent. Meanwhile, certain segments such as cement and steel, have already seen their capacity utilisation levels cross 80-85 percent. As such, investment has already begun taking place in those sectors.
 
The news published on the date February 22, 2024 02:33 PM IST with headline  Japan Stock Market High: Congratulations Nikkei, now don’t screw it up is: 
 With the Nikkei set to close at an all-time high, there’s reason to hope that this might not be a fleeting affair. (Source: Bloomberg) History might not repeat itself, but it rhymes. The last time Japanese stocks hit an all-time high, the yen was floating around 145 to 150 to the dollar; the Bank of Japan was working on interest rate hikes amid concern over inflation, which was nonetheless modest compared with other countries. The country’s soft power was dominant overseas; self-help and management gurus floated supposed secret Japanese life-hacks.Many things have changed since that long-standing record for the Nikkei 225 Stock Average on the final trading day of 1989. That was the era of arrogance captured in The Japan That Can Say No, the essay by conservative politician Shintaro Ishihara and Sony Group Corp co-founder Akio Morita that advocated for an assertive nation — the period where it was seen as a trade monster that was coming for US jobs. No matter how bullish foreign investors might be on Japanese stocks today, no one thinks a country that just saw its gross domestic product surpassed by Germany is on course for global dominance.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBut with the Nikkei set to close at an all-time high, there’s reason to hope that this might not be a fleeting affair. The entire country recognizes the 1989 bubble to be a monumental moment of hubris and excess. The Nikkei’s price-to-earnings ratio hovered as high as 70 amid ludicrously optimistic assumptions that the rapid-growth era would never end, while company balance sheets were laden with debt and bad assets.Those sceptical of the current boom argue that this is nothing more than a another instance of a once-a-decade cycle in which interest in Japan is resurgent, but fleeting. But there are good reasons to believe that this time, things are different: Investors are souring on China; problems like the low fertility rate that once seemed unique are now experienced worldwide. And unlike past rallies, this narrative isn’t dependent on one man: Compared with the overly hopeful expectations for former leaders Junichiro Koizumi and Shinzo Abe, there’s little linking the incumbent, Fumio Kishida, to the current stock-market success.To silence the sceptics, Japan needs to find a way to maintain the momentum. It can start by keeping foreign investors on board this time — their interest is crucial to sustaining stocks as well as convincing often more-sceptical domestic traders. Japan Exchange Group Chief Executive Officer Hiromi Yamaji has led an intriguing pressure campaign to induce firms to boost their valuations that has captured the imaginations of global money managers. He must continue his slow-burn revolution, and keep turning the screws on companies that aren’t cooperating. The narrative that boardrooms are backward or dismissive of shareholders still has broad reach, but Yamaji is the best hope yet of dismissing it.
 
The news published on the date February 22, 2024 02:23 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | A tale of two markets is: 
 The Indian stock markets look more balanced. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdShares of Nvidia surged in the US after the company reported stellar results, quashing fears about demand. Revenues at the designer of the semiconductor chips tripled in the quarter ending January 28. Revenues are projected to grow by a similar pace in the current quarter from the year ago period.Nvidia results were eagerly awaited by the market participants in the US. The stock, along with other large technology companies such as Microsoft, Meta, Amazon and Alphabet are wielding outsized influence on the US stock market indices. The trillion-dollar valuations of these companies dwarf other stocks in the benchmark indices and are determining market direction.Thankfully, Nvidia delivered better than expected results. Demand for chips used in artificial intelligence (AI) systems continues to outstrip supply. “Accelerated computing and generative AI have hit the tipping point,” Jensen Huang, founder and chief executive officer of NVIDIA in an earnings statement.
 
The news published on the date February 22, 2024 01:51 PM IST with headline  Govt allows Nafed, NCCF to sell maize to ethanol makers at base rate of Rs 2,291/quintal is: 
 Govt allows Nafed, NCCF to sell maize to ethanol makers at base rate of Rs 2,291/quintal To ensure uninterrupted supply of maize for ethanol makers, the government has allowed cooperatives Nafed and NCCF to sell maize at a base price of Rs 2,291 per quintal to distilleries this year.Nafed and National Cooperative Consumers' Federation of India (NCCF) will procure maize at a minimum support price of Rs 2,090 per quintal in the 2023-24 crop year and supply to the distilleries at a mutually agreed rate of Rs 2,291 per quintal, a senior food ministry official told PTI.Story continues below AdvertisementThe move aims to ensure distilleries get uninterrupted supply of the feedstock for ethanol production, the official said.The country's maize production is pegged at 22.48 million tonne for the 2023-24 crop year (July-June), as per the first advance estimate of the agriculture ministry.The government is promoting the use of maize as an alternative to sugar to increase ethanol production and ensure sufficient supply of the sweetener in the market.In December last year, the government directed sugar mills not to use cane juice for production of ethanol as the country's sugar production is expected to decline in the 2023-24 marketing year (October-September).Meanwhile, the oil marketing companies have raised the procurement price of ethanol made from maize by Rs 5.79 per litre to encourage its production of blending with petrol
 
The news published on the date February 22, 2024 02:35 PM IST with headline  Need research work on ways to reduce dependence on fossil fuels, says Nitin Gadkari is: 
 Need research work on ways to reduce dependence on fossil fuels, says Nitin Gadkari Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday said research work needs to be done on ways to cut down the dependence on fossil fuels as that will also help in reducing ecological and environmental issues.Research works also have a huge potential to make sustainable life for socially, economically and educationally backward classes, the Minister for Road, Transport and Highways said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"The research we need is going to (be to) reduce our import (of fuels), research which is going to help people socially, economically and educationally backward, and the research where we can use waste to reduce problems of ecology and environment," Gadkari said while addressing the 14th Edition of Aegis Graham Bell Awards.By using different technologies, one day India will be in a strong position, he said and added that a day will come in 5 years when the country will be an exporter of bio-aviation fuel.Using bio-mass from bamboo wheat straw and rice straw, ethanol can be made and from ethanol, bio-aviation fuel can be made, the minister said.
 
The news published on the date February 22, 2024 02:06 PM IST with headline  Confident of India's growth at 6-8% for next 10 years, says Ashwini Vaishnaw is: 
 Confident of India's growth at 6-8% for next 10 years, says Ashwini Vaishnaw Union Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Thursday expressed confidence that India will continue to demonstrate a 6-8 per cent consistent growth rate over the next 10 years as he invited global players to the country to tap domestic and global markets.India is open to the world, and to new ideas, Vaishnaw, the Minister of Railways, Communications and IT, said while speaking at Raisina Dialogue 2024.Story continues below Advertisement"The Indian economy is growing at a consistent clip at a very good rate. In the next 10 years, India will continue to grow at 6-8 per cent consistent growth rate...I can say that with a high level of confidence," Vaishnaw said.The building blocks for this are already in place and the results are visible, he said, outlining various growth initiatives taken by the government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The next five years will further lay the foundation for India to become a developed country by 2047, he said.Vaishnaw said that the focus over the next five years will be on the full spectrum of manufacturing, upliftment through education, and infusion of technology in the healthcare sector, among other priorities
 
The news published on the date February 22, 2024 01:46 PM IST with headline  India on track to become $10 trillion economy, set for 3rd largest slot: WEF President Borge Brende is: 
 India on track to become $10 trillion economy, set for 3rd largest slot: WEF President Borge Brende India is on track to become a USD 10 trillion economy in coming years and grab the third-largest slot soon, World Economic Forum President Borge Brende said on Thursday as he described the country as a place with optimism not seen elsewhere in a very fragmented and polarised world.In an exclusive video interview with PTI, Brende also said that the World Economic Forum (WEF) hopes to come back to the country with the WEF India Summit in collaboration with Government of India when the time is ripe.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"The Indian economy is the fastest growing among all large economies of the world. We saw in Davos this year that there was a huge interest in India and I think this will only continue," Brende said.Geneva-based WEF, which describes itself as an international organisation for public-private cooperation, holds its annual meeting in the Swiss ski resort town Davos every year in January. Brende said Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi is "always very, very welcome to Davos"."When you come to India, you feel some optimism which is not the case all over the world. We are facing a geopolitical recession, a very fragmented and polarised world, but still there are areas where we can collaborate and it is important to find those areas," he said.
 
The news published on the date February 22, 2024 01:39 PM IST with headline  India should become exporter of green energy by 2047 to attract capital: Amitabh Kant is: 
 India should become exporter of green energy by 2047 to attract capital: Amitabh Kant India should become an exporter of green energy by 2047 to attract capital, the G20 sherpa Amitabh Kant said on Thursday.Addressing at the 'Raisina Dialogue 2024', Kant said today's challenge is climate change and the World Bank needs to become a climate bank.Story continues below AdvertisementFurther, he said in future, all investments are expected to flow into the renewable sector, and countries will be able to attract capital once they go green."By 2047, India should be an exporter of green energy...The countries will be able to attract capital if they go green," he said.Kant noted that the global south must take a different path and each country needs to push for renewals.According to Kant, biofuels can also be a big driver in creating jobs and achieving clean fuel targets.He suggested that by 2050,the country's 90 per cent energy requirements should be met from renewable energy "You need policy framework, leadership, and finance to push renewables," he said
 
The news published on the date February 22, 2024 01:16 PM IST with headline  India pharma companies develop versions of Wegovy to get in on weight-loss windfall is: 
 India pharma companies develop versions of Wegovy to get in on weight-loss windfall Indian drugmakers aiming to grab a slice of the burgeoning weight-loss treatment sales pie, both at home and abroad, have begun developing their own versions of Novo Nordisk's wildly in demand Wegovy.With some analysts predicting a weight-loss market reaching $100 billion a year or more by the end of the decade, executives at Sun Pharma, Cipla, Dr Reddy's and Lupin -- some of the world's largest generic drugmakers -- all said they have started work on Wegovy versions.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdNovo Nordisk has been unable to produce enough Wegovy to meet demand in more than half a dozen countries where it has already launched, amid record global obesity rates and people looking for easier alternatives to diet and exercise. U.S. rival Eli Lilly likewise has been unable to meet demand for its weight-loss drugs Zepbound and Mounjaro.Novo has not provided a clear timeline for introducing Wegovy globally, but told Reuters it aims to launch in India in 2026.The move by Indian drugmakers could go a long way toward improving global access to weight-loss drugs and make them far more affordable, analysts said.
 
The news published on the date February 22, 2024 06:17 PM IST with headline  Does SEBI’s action against TV experts have a basis in law? is: 
 As SEBI acknowledges in its order, the market has grown for the better with the new developments of social media, etc. But for this to continue and remain robust and vibrant with an element of certainty, SEBI needs to make a clear set of regulations for them HighlightsSEBI has passed an order against stock market experts who gave stock recommendations on a TV channel, and tied up with parties to buy and sell the same stocksThe market regulatory has passed an ad-interim ex-parte order against these experts, saying they used private information for fraudulent purposesIn cases of insider trading or front-running the legal provisions –both specific and general- are knownBut here, it is not clear which laws these experts may have violated and howSEB
 
The news published on the date February 22, 2024 11:01 AM IST with headline  India's February business activity accelerated to seven-month high on solid demand is: 
 India's February business activity accelerated to seven-month high on solid demand Indian business activity expanded at its fastest pace in seven months in February as demand remained strong for both manufacturing and services, according to a business survey released on Thursday, which also showed an easing in price pressures.That supports the findings in a Reuters poll which found India, the fastest growing major economy, is expected to continue to grow at a steady pace over the coming years.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHSBC's flash India Composite Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI), compiled by S&P Global, rose to 61.5 this month from January's final reading of 61.2, staying above the 50-mark that separates expansion from contraction for a 31st straight month."The pace of acceleration in the output of India's manufacturers and service providers, combined, was at a 7-month high in February. Encouragingly, new export orders rose sharply, particularly for goods producers," noted Pranjul Bhandari, chief India economist at HSBC.The flash manufacturing PMI for February rose to 56.7 from last month's 56.5, its highest since September, and the preliminary services PMI was at a seven-month high of 62.0 from 61.8 in January.
 
The news published on the date February 22, 2024 10:18 AM IST with headline  The Green Pivot | Wall Street gets cold feet on ESG as politics plays spoilsport is: 
 The principal argument employed by those against ESG investing is that it diverges from the fiduciary duty of asset managers to ensure the best possible returns for investors HighlightsThe biggest asset managers are turning away from sustainable financeMany US States have threatened to take the pension fund business away from asset managers who gave priority to ESG factorsGovernments dragging their feet on climate change has encouraged the climate change deniers and fossil fuel vested interestsWidespread greenwashing has also soured investor interest in sustainable fundsGlobal sustainable funds have seen net outflows of USD 2.5 billion in th
 
The news published on the date February 22, 2024 11:58 AM IST with headline  Indian fintech is fast, furious — and problematic  is: 
 Fintech intermediaries have done something innovative. First, Paytm was asked to freeze its banking business, a crackdown so severe that India’s pioneering digital payments firm bled out nearly 60 percent of its market value in two weeks. Then came the regulatory diktat to Visa Inc. The network was told to halt the use of its business cards for commercial payments where a fintech is in the middle. And now, media reports suggest that more nonbank intermediaries may expect a rap on the knuckles. Just what has made the Reserve Bank of India so cranky all of a sudden?The answer to that question may lie in the cloud. Or, to be more precise, in cloud computing.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe growth of neo-banking is courtesy of Amazon Web Services, which has allowed the world’s most-populous nation to move very large numbers of small payments instantaneously. However, fast and furious has also created more room for fraud in a country where documentation has always been patchy. Even “Aadhaar,” the biometrics-based unique number and card through which Indians are supposed to establish who they are, is not to be relied upon as proof of date of birth, the manager of the world’s largest identity project said recently.Know-your-customer, or KYC, regulations aren’t easy anywhere. But fintech adoption in India has done more than just open the floodgates to financial inclusion. The cloud has added complexity — and risk — to the landscape. Three years ago, Sunny Leone, a Bollywood actress, was scammed by someone using only her name and her tax identity number to take out a $27 ghost loan that ended up spoiling her credit score. All other data, including her address, phone number, email, date of birth and bank account, were fake, according to a report by The Ken, a news website.If individual KYC is this sketchy, the process of onboarding businesses isn’t ironclad, either. It used to be that only large retailers accepted online payments, as cards were too expensive for small players. But now more than 50 million merchants accept QR code-based settlements over an ubiquitous smartphone-based protocol known as Unified Payments Interface. UPI logged more than 100 billion transactions last year, among the fastest-growing account-to-account systems alongside Brazil’s PIX, a later entrant.
 
The news published on the date February 22, 2024 11:01 AM IST with headline  Equity AUM of mutual funds grows 45% in Jan, Tatas lead overall growth matrix is: 
 SBI Mutual Fund remains the largest fund house in India, its average equity AUM higher by more than 64 percent than the second largest equity AUM holder – ICICI MF Indian equity bull run in 2023 has done wonders for asset management companies (AMCs). So much so that it has helped average equity asset under management (AUM) grow by an impressive 45 percent year on year for large players or funds with more than 1 lakh crore average AUM.The total average AUM has grown ~30 percent for the same set of mutual funds.With 57 percen
 
The news published on the date February 22, 2024 11:01 AM IST with headline  Don’t tax the gig economy before it becomes robust is: 
 Number of gig workers are expected to up to 23.5 million by 2029-30. Highlights:Karnataka followed Rajasthan in giving gig workers a social security netState governments will tax the businesses which employ gig workers for the social security schemesTaxing the gig economy businesses early on could hurt themNumber of gig workers are expected to up to 23.5 million by 2029-30BCG points out India’s gig economy has the potential to service 90 million jobs Gig workers, an embodiment of private enterprise, are slowly entering the domain of public finance with a second stat
 
The news published on the date February 21, 2024 11:58 PM IST with headline  Cabinet OKs changes to space FDI policy, allows 100% foreign investment under automatic route for some activities is: 
 Up to 49% FDI is now permitted under the automatic route for launch vehicles and associated systems or subsystems, creation of spaceports for launching and receiving spacecraft The Union Cabinet on February 21 approved changes to the Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) policy for the space sector, allowing up to 100 percent foreign investment under the automatic route for certain activities. These include manufacturing of components and systems and sub-systems for satellites.The Union Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, met in the evening of February 21.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"As per the existing FDI policy, FDI is permitted in the establishment and operation of satellites through the government approval route only. In line with the vision and strategy under the Indian Space Policy 2023, the Union Cabinet has eased the FDI policy in the space sector by prescribing liberalised FDI thresholds for various sub-sectors/activities," the government said in a statement, adding that the relaxed norms are aimed at attracting potential investors to invest in Indian companies in the space sector.Also Read: ISRO holding discussions 'internally' on Chandrayaan-4 missionThe amended norms are as followsUp to 49 percent FDI is now permitted under the automatic route for launch vehicles and associated systems or subsystems, creation of spaceports for launching and receiving spacecraft. Beyond 49 percent, FDI in these activities will require government approval. Up to 74 percent FDI is now permitted under the automatic route for satellite manufacturing and operation, satellite data products and Ground Segment and User Segment. Again, an FDI of over 74 percent in these activities will require the government's approval.Up to 100 percent FDI is now permitted under the automatic route for the manufacturing of components and systems or sub-systems for satellites, ground segments and user segments."Department of Space consulted with internal stakeholders like IN-SPACe (Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre), ISRO (Indian Space Research Organisation) and NSIL (NewSpace India Limited) as well as several industrial stakeholders. NGEs (non-government entities) have developed capabilities and expertise in the areas of satellites and launch vehicles. With increased investment, they would be able to achieve sophistication of products, global scale of operations and enhanced share of global space economy," a government statement said.
 
The news published on the date February 21, 2024 11:33 PM IST with headline  Cabinet approves hike in sugarcane procurement price to Rs 340 per quintal for 2024-25 season is: 
 The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, met in the evening of February 21. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, on February 21, approved a hike in the Fair and Remunerative Price (FRP) of sugarcane to Rs 340 per quintal from Rs 315 per quintal for the 2024-25 (October-September) season.The Rs 25-per-quintal increase in the FRP of sugarcane is significantly higher than what was announced last year, when the government had raised it by Rs 10 per quintal to Rs 315.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: Farmers' protest standoff – why agitators turned down Centre's MSP proposalThe decision to hike the FRP of sugarcane in February is unusual considering the season begins in October and comes amid the 'Delhi Chalo' protests by farmers, with the government involved in talks with them over their demands.In 2023, the decision on sugarcane FRP was announced in June. Before that, in 2022, it was announced in August. In 2019, when the last Lok Sabha elections were held, the government had announced the sugarcane FRP for the 2019-20 season in July and had left it unchanged from the previous season.
 
The news published on the date February 21, 2024 08:54 PM IST with headline  Dollar steadies ahead of Fed minutes, pound shrugs off record surplus is: 
 Dollar steadies ahead of Fed minutes, pound shrugs off record surplus The dollar flattened on Wednesday as traders awaited minutes of the Federal Reserve's latest policy meeting for further clues on the central bank's rate outlook, while sterling shrugged off Britain's highest ever monthly budget surplus in January.Data last week showed sticky US inflation, prompting investors to push back bets the Fed would start cutting rates in March. Markets are now pricing in the first cut in June, compared with March at the start of the year.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTraders are now pricing in 95 basis points (bps) worth of easing by the Fed this year.A slim majority of economists polled by Reuters expects the Fed to cut interest rates in June.The minutes of the Fed's latest policy meeting due later in the day will provide further clarity on the outlook for US rates.
 
The news published on the date February 21, 2024 05:21 PM IST with headline  PFRDA notifies changes to NPS Trust, pension fund regulations is: 
 The amendments to the NPS Trust and pension fund regulations try to simplify and reduce compliance. The Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) has notified amendments to the National Pension System Trust and Pension Fund regulations. The legal changes, which were notified earlier this month, are in line with what was announced in the Union Budget for 2023-24 that said the regulations would be reviewed to lower the cost of compliance and enhance ease of doing business.The changes to the NPS Trust norms simplify provisions for the appointment of trustees, their terms and conditions, holding of meetings of Board of Trustees, and appointment of NPS Trust's chief executive officer.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: Three steps to resolve a complaint against National Pension System"Amendments to Pension Fund Regulations simplify the provisions related to governance of Pension Funds in line with Companies Act, 2013 and enhanced disclosure by Pension Funds," the finance ministry said in a statement on February 21.Some of the other changes to the regulations also call for the inclusion of the phrase 'Pension Fund' in the name clause, with existing pension funds given 12 months to meet this requirement. Further, amendments have been made relating to the annual report of schemes managed by the pension fund to include directors' responsibility statement and constitution of additional board committees by pension funds, such as audit and nomination and remuneration committees.
 
The news published on the date February 21, 2024 05:59 PM IST with headline  FSDC meet discusses macro-financial stability, simplification of digital KYC process is: 
 The Financial Stability and Development Council (FSDC) met in New Delhi on February 21. India's Financial Stability and Development Council (FSDC) met on February 21 in New Delhi and discussed a range of issues, including macro-financial stability and matters related to Know-Your-Customer (KYC) norms."The FSDC considered the domestic and global macro-financial situation and emphasised that the members need to maintain constant vigilance and continue their proactive efforts towards detecting emerging financial stability risks and taking the necessary measures to maintain the resilience of the financial sector," the finance ministry said in a statement on February 21.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: CEA Nageswaran says energy transition may endanger global macro stability"The FSDC members also decided to strengthen inter-regulatory coordination to further develop the financial sector so that it continues to provide the requisite financial resources for inclusive economic growth," it added.The FSDC is chaired by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Other officials present at the meeting included secretaries from the finance, corporate affairs, and information technology ministries, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Shaktikanta Das, Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) Chairperson Madhabi Puri Buch. Heads of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI), Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA), Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI), and the International Financial Services Centres Authority (IFSCA) were also present.
 
The news published on the date February 21, 2024 09:36 PM IST with headline  Explained: What is a recession and should India be concerned? is: 
 The UK’s GDP contracted by 0.1 percent and 0.3 percent in the final two quarters of 2023, pushing the economy into what is called a technical recession. Last week, data from Asia and Europe showed the Japanese and UK economies had slipped into a recession. While this was unexpected for Japan, it was a particularly unpleasant development for the UK with national elections likely to be held in 2024. A third member of the G7, Germany, could also follow Japan and the UK, with the Bundesbank saying on February 19 that the economy was not recovering. But what exactly is a recession?A technical recessionStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhat is commonly known as a recession is defined as two consecutive quarters of year-on-year (YoY) contraction in a country's Gross Domestic Product (GDP). As such, both Japan and the UK have seen their GDP shrink on a YoY basis in July-September 2023 and October-December 2023. The GDP of Germany, meanwhile, contracted by 0.3 percent in the last quarter of 2023 and is expected to shrink again in the first quarter of 2024, according to the German central bank.This definition of recession is widely called a 'technical recession' and is used most often in the media. Using this definition, India too was in a recession in the first half of 2020-21, when the GDP contracted by 23.4 percent in April-June 2020 and by 5.7 percent in July-September 2020 as the economy ground to a halt due to the nationwide lockdown enforced to stop the spread of the coronavirus.
 
The news published on the date February 21, 2024 03:00 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | The premiumisation of the Indian stock market  is: 
 A premium valuation has been attributed to superior management quality, product standards, and limited free float, among other factors. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMultinational companies (MNCs) listed in India have traditionally commanded a premium over their domestic counterparts within the same industry. This premium valuation has been attributed to superior management quality, product standards, and limited free float, among other factors. As the market continues to surge to new heights, these stocks have also witnessed an upward trajectory, maintaining their premium status to some extent.The big differential, however, is with their parent company. Some of these stocks are trading at a premium in valuation and value terms to their parents. A key reason for this difference is the growth in the two markets where they are listed. Indian markets offer higher growth rates and better profitability, thus justifying a premium.Recent reports indicate that domestically listed MNCs are trading at forward price-to-earnings (P/E) and price-to-book (P/B) multiples ranging from 2.1x to 6x higher than their parent companies.
 
The news published on the date February 21, 2024 12:49 PM IST with headline  Are energy efficient appliances worth it? is: 
 In UK, the installed share of efficient home appliances increased to 34% in 2019 from 9% in 2012. (Source: Bloomberg/Getty Images Europe) I’ve recently moved into my first pad as a homeowner. The climate crisis was front of mind when we chose the place, so we opted for something that should be resilient and not require huge investments. But now that we’re here, slowly unpacking our boxes, I’m wondering what the next step is to reduce our home’s environmental impact.We’re in a leasehold flat on a heat network, and many improvements such as double glazing have already been made. So though I’ve been switching to LEDs from halogen light bulbs and researching thermal curtain liners, I’m also eyeing our appliances. They’re all working well, but technology has moved on, and I suspect we could slash our electricity bill by upgrading them.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEnergy efficiency is a no-brainer climate solution. Improving it not only reduces greenhouse gas emissions but also energy bills. The biggest gains will be made by adding insulation and switching to low-carbon heating, as these investments will have the largest impact on fossil-fuel demand (74 percent of UK homes are heated with gas). But electricity use is important, too.It’s a process that’s been happening organically: Residential electricity consumption fell by 12 percent between 2008 and 2018, even as the UK population grew, thanks to improvements in lighting and appliances. Low-energy bulbs now account for half of all light bulbs, and the installed share of efficient home appliances increased to 34 percent in 2019 from 9 percent in 2012. That’s rapid progress, but clearly there’s still room for improvement.How much should I worry about our washing machine and fridge-freezer? I crunched some numbers to find out.
 
The news published on the date February 21, 2024 12:40 PM IST with headline  There is magic in the discovery of a new type of magnetism is: 
 This new form, called altermagnetism, could lead to more energy-efficient computation. Anjana AhujaAltermagnets could help make computing more energy efficientAs some accounts have it, the stones were first noticed in around 2500 BCE by a shepherd in Magnesia, in what is modern-day Turkey. He observed that they clung to the nails in his shoes.The stones were made of naturally magnetic iron ore. They were probably already familiar to the Chinese, who used lodestones — a form of magnetite — to first tell fortunes and later make navigational compasses
 
The news published on the date February 21, 2024 12:54 PM IST with headline  Meet the Delhi School of Economics alumna who's the only one making sense in BoE's MPC is: 
 Dhingra’s caution is proving increasingly prescient after the UK economy slipped into recession in the second half of 2023. (Source: Bloomberg) Swati Dhingra, an external member of the Bank of England's Monetary Policy Committee, is in a unique position as the only major central bank policymaker to publicly call for an interest rate cut in at least two years. If the BOE does decide to ease before either the Federal Reserve or the European Central Bank, it will be in no small part down to her trailblazing. She should stick to her guns until it does.Dhingra has been the lone BOE dove since Silvana Tenreyro stepped down from the MPC in July. Tenreyro and Dhingra had voted against further rate hikes from December 2022; Dhingra’s caution is proving increasingly prescient after the UK economy slipped into recession in the second half of 2023, with per capita gross domestic product failing to grow for the longest period on record.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFormer BOE Chief Economist Andy Haldane has echoed Dhingra in the past week, saying that rate cuts are needed to avoid deepening the economic downturn. And in a welcome development, Governor Andrew Bailey was more dovish at Tuesday's Treasury Select Committee hearing, saying that policy could ease before inflation falls to its 2 percent target. Bailey said he sees encouraging signs of improvement in the main areas of concern including sticky wage and services inflation, while repeating the mantra of wanting to see sustained progress.Dhingra told Tuesday’s hearing that she’s wary of overseeing a "profound hit" to the UK economy, warning of substantial downside risks particularly if the supply-side capacity of the economy suffers long-term damage. She noted that UK job vacancies are rising faster than in the euro zone and the US — a refreshing counterbalance to the watch-and-wait groupthink of her BOE peers, who remain preoccupied with inflationary risks that are fast receding in the rear-view mirror.
 
The news published on the date February 21, 2024 11:56 AM IST with headline  Nickel and Copper: A tale of two metals will determine the future of energy is: 
 Current prices are great for miners — but they make every product that will drive the decarbonisation of economy a little more expensive. The world’s biggest miner BHP Group Ltd grew powerful by building dominant positions in producing the minerals of the future. That makes the challenges it’s facing with two key clean-tech ingredients a sobering lesson for the energy transition.Nickel and copper have long been recognized as vital components of a decarbonised economy. The former helps to cram energy into the lithium-ion batteries used in electric vehicles and grid-scale power storage cells. The latter is used almost everywhere electricity flows — from wires, motors and turbines to heat exchangers and transformers.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAnnual nickel supplies need to grow from about 3.4 million tons currently to more than 5 million tons in 2030 to keep the world on a path to net zero, according to the International Energy Agency. Copper must go from 25 million tons to 35 million tons. Ideally, we should be seeing supply of both metals expanding at a rapid clip, with the emphasis most strongly on copper, where miners produce about 10 metric tons for every ton of nickel.The scenario that’s playing out is close to the opposite. Chinese companies refining battery-grade nickel from the red soil of eastern Indonesia are flooding the market, sending prices down about 40 percent over the past 12 months and pushing about half of global production into losses. While copper prices have fallen about 7.7 percent over the same period, almost every mine is churning out profits. That’s still not sufficient to induce more production to come onstream, however. Fitch Ratings Inc estimates that supply will be falling 1.2 million tons short of demand by 2029.The most prominent bad news in BHP’s first-half results Tuesday is likely the $2.5 billion impairment to an Australian nickel business that’s been struggling for many years before briefly forecasting better prospects from the EV battery revolution. “We did not anticipate, nor did the rest of the market, the rapid growth of Indonesian supply,” Chief Financial Officer David Lamont told investors Tuesday. The unit might end up being mothballed until signs the market is recovering.
 
The news published on the date February 21, 2024 09:36 AM IST with headline  The curious case of India’s core inflation fall is: 
 What is falling core inflation telling us? HighlightsDeparting from decadal trend of stickiness, core inflation has steadily fallen in recent monthsCore inflation fall is partly due to inflation targeting monetary policy but more due to global commodity price fallThe deceleration in core inflation does not indicate weakening demandCore inflation arrived by removing food and fuel inflation is the most robust measure for policymakers, finds RBI studyIt is unclear whether core will climb towards headline inflation or the headline will slip towards coreFor decades, India’
 
The news published on the date February 21, 2024 09:28 AM IST with headline  The regulatory landscape for NBFCs is still a work-in-progress is: 
 NBFC-fintech interactions necessitate closer scrutiny of the sector. Highlights:The RBI has segregated NBFCs into categories based on size and interconnectednessRegulatory oversight of NBFCs has increased over the yearsThe regulator is pursuing a mix of entity-based and activity-based regulationThe final safeguard of having self regulatory organisations is yet to be fulfilledNBFC-fintech interactions also necessitate closer scrutiny of the sector Here is a parable for our times, especially for the non-banking finance company (NBFC) sector seeking parity of treatment with the banking sector. It also provides a pointe
 
The news published on the date February 21, 2024 09:20 AM IST with headline  Rate cuts unlikely until RBI sees inflation stable at 4 percent is: 
 The RBI researchers also say that global financial conditions are becoming easier, driven by equity market exuberance and compression in corporate bond spreads HighlightsThe February state of the economy report is optimistic about the global economyGlobal financial conditions are becoming easierEmerging Asia ex China to see higher growthIn the rabi season, the area under all major crops, except rice and pulses, is higher compared to last yearValue added in manufacturing is holding up wellInflation is coming downConsumption demand is improvingCorporates must start to increase capexReport says stable and low inflation at 4 per cent is the bedrock for sustaining economi
 
The news published on the date February 21, 2024 09:00 AM IST with headline  Can the upcoming WTO ministerial bust the myth of 'unlucky 13'? is: 
 The tone of WTO DG Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala's helplessness is palpable in her statement. This is unfortunate at a time when world trade needs multilateral cooperation to steady the course after a choppy 2023 Highlights13th Ministerial Conference of WTO in Abu Dhabi from February 26The agenda could include several contentious issuesA solution to the dispute settlement mechanism is unlikelyIndia and several other countries oppose the stand of developed nations on several issuesProliferation of plurilateral initiatives a threat to WTOThe world trade body needs to find ways to keep itself relevantLess than a week ahead of the biennial WTO (World Trade Organization) ministerial meeting, expectations of tangible outcomes are quite muted. While th
 
The news published on the date February 21, 2024 08:41 AM IST with headline  MC Pro Inside Edge: Fastest-Finger-First strikes in Sula, Paytm punters’ long wait, rights issue capers, PSU bank convert is: 
 Sour grapesSula Vineyard shares recouped some of the previous session’s losses. The stock had dived on Monday soon after a large block of shares changed hands. But algo trading firm Fastest-Finger-First, nicknamed so because of its ability sniff out large deals and take a meaty bite, had a profitable outing. This firm along with its two affiliates managed to flip around 2 million shares for a tidy profit despite suffering a small loss on one of th
 
The news published on the date February 20, 2024 11:34 PM IST with headline  Dollar, stocks slip as rate cut expectations fade quickly is: 
 Dollar, stocks slip as rate cut expectations fade quickly The dollar eased and stocks on Wall Street and in Europe fell on Tuesday as fading optimism that central banks will soon cut interest rates weighed on sentiment, keeping key pan-European and Japanese stock indices from breaching record highs.Walmart kicked off the earnings season for US retailers on an upbeat note, helping limit losses on the Dow, but Europe's broad STOXX 600 benchmark and Japan's Nikkei remain about 1% below respective record peaks in 2022 and 1989.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHotter-than-expected US inflation data last week snuffed market expectations for an imminent start to the Federal Reserve's easing cycle and halted a rally for US. stocks in 2024 that was based on an outlook of inflation slowing further.The Fed will cut the federal funds rate in June, according to a slim majority of economists polled by Reuters who also said the first rate cut would come later than forecast rather than earlier.The call for further deflation has depended on below-trend economic growth, but the structural foundation for that outlook is wrong as there is little slack in the economy, said Phillip Colmar, global strategist at MRB Partners in New York.
 
The news published on the date February 20, 2024 11:24 PM IST with headline  Oil dips as demand outlook remains uncertain is: 
 Oil dips as demand outlook remains uncertain Oil prices fell on Tuesday, with an uncertain outlook for global demand knocking value off crude futures contracts, despite some risk premium from the Israel-Hamas conflict.Brent futures dipped 22 cents or 0.26% to $83.34 a barrel by 1450 GMT. The six-month spread for Brent on Tuesday was also at its highest since October, in a sign of a tighter market.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdUS West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude for April delivery fell 26 cents, or 0.33%, to $78.20 a barrel, after earlier paring $1. The March WTI contract gained 36 cents or 0.45% to $79.55 a barrel ahead of its expiry during the session.There was no settlement for WTI on Monday due to a US public holiday.Crude markets were "marginally lower" in "quiet trading over the Presidents' Day holiday in the US and as demand concerns offset ongoing Middle Eastern geopolitical tensions", IG market analyst Tony Sycamore said in a note.
 
The news published on the date February 20, 2024 08:34 PM IST with headline  US-India alliance for women's economic empowerment being revitalised: US diplomat is: 
 US-India alliance for women's economic empowerment being revitalised: US diplomat An alliance between the US and India that seeks to facilitate women's economic participation in India by catalysing commitments from private sector, civil society and government leaders in both countries is being revitalised, a senior US diplomat said on Tuesday.The US-India Alliance for Women's Economic Empowerment will work across the board to harness the resources of the private sector and NGOs to foster commitments for women's retention, and stem employment and entrepreneurship, Deputy Chief of Mission in India Patricia A Lacina said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdShe was delivering the keynote address at the WEConnect International Empowering Inclusion-Advancing Value Chains Summit 2024."…we are revitalising the US-India Alliance for Women's Economic Empowerment. A public-private partnership to enhance mentorship," she said.Last year, the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum (USISPF), the US Department of State, the US Agency for International Development (USAID) and the George Washington University launched the alliance in Delhi.
 
The news published on the date February 20, 2024 07:29 PM IST with headline  Fin Min says 'urgent' need to boost competitiveness, attractiveness of India's exports amid global uncertainty is: 
 The report points to a positive impact on economic activity in the fiscal year 2025, driven by a robust Rabi harvest. The finance ministry has said it is crucial that India's exports are made more attractive amid continued uncertainty in global growth and trade conditions, with headwinds from geopolitical tensions, including supply-chain disruptions and higher logistics costs, posing downside risks to growth."Given persisting uncertainties for global output and trade growth, finding ways to enhance the competitiveness and attractiveness of India's exports is both urgent and important," the finance ministry's Monthly Economic Review report for January, released on February 20, said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: India's Russian oil buys get dearer on detour due to Houthi attacksThe comments from the finance ministry's economists comes amid attacks on commercial vessels by Houthi rebels of Yemen in the Red Sea, which have raised concerns about global maritime commerce.Latest trade data released on February 15 showed India's merchandise exports in January edged up by just 3.1 percent year-on-year to $36.92 billion, with a senior government official telling Moneycontrol that growth in exports could have been higher if the Red Sea crisis hadn't disrupted trade by forcing freight companies to take the longer route around Africa to reach the west or wait at nearby ports for safe passage through the Suez Canal.
 
The news published on the date February 20, 2024 06:58 PM IST with headline  RBI Bulletin: Central bank rejects IMF's warnings, sees India's debt-to-GDP ratio falling to 73.4% by FY31 is: 
 The article ‘The Shape of Growth Compatible Fiscal Consolidation’ has been co-authored by RBI Deputy Governor Michael Patra, among others. India's debt-to-GDP ratio could decline to 73.4 percent by 2030-31 from an estimated 81.6 percent in 2023-24, the Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) monthly bulletin said, thus rejecting the International Monetary Fund's (IMF) warning that it could exceed 100 percent in the coming years."Our simulations reveal that the general government debt-GDP ratio swerves below the projected path set out by the IMF in its latest Article IV consultation report for India," said an article titled 'The Shape of Growth Compatible Fiscal Consolidation' and released on February 20 as part of the central bank's monthly bulletin.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: IMF, India cross swords over fisc consolidation, FX intervention"It is in this context that we reject the IMF's contention that if historical shocks materialise, India's general government debt would exceed 100 percent of GDP in the medium-term and hence further fiscal tightening is needed," it added.The article, which counts RBI Deputy Governor Michael Patra among its authors, does not represent the views of the central bank.
 
The news published on the date February 20, 2024 05:59 PM IST with headline  CBI raids former DIPP Secy Ramesh Abhishek in disproportionate assets case is: 
 Former DIPP Secy Ramesh Abhishek The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is conducting searches at the premises of the former Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion (DIPP) secretary Ramesh Abhishek in a disproportionate assets case, people familiar with the development said. Abhishek is also an independent director of Paytm Payments Bank.“Lokpal had referred a case of disproportionate assets against him. The FIR in the case is likely to be made public by the CBI later today,” one of the people above said Moneycontrol.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe 1982-batch IAS officer from the Bihar cadre retired in 2019.During his tenure at DIPP, Abhishek played a crucial role in formulating policies aimed at promoting industrial growth and ease of doing business in India. He was instrumental in implementing initiatives such as Make in India, Startup India, and the liberalisation of foreign direct investment (FDI) norms to attract more investment into the country.Abhishek joined Paytm Payments Bank Ltd as an independent director after retiring from the Indian Administrative Service (IAS).
 
The news published on the date February 20, 2024 05:47 PM IST with headline  Rupee rises 6 paise to settle at 82.95 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee rises 6 paise to settle at 82.95 against US dollar The rupee appreciated 6 paise to settle at 82.95 (provisional) against the US dollar on Tuesday, amid robust equity market sentiment and a weak American currency. Forex traders said, sustained outflow of foreign funds capped a sharp gain in the domestic currency.At the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 83.02 and touched the intraday high of 82.91 against the greenback. The local unit finally settled at 82.95 (provisional) against the dollar, registering a gain of 6 paise from its previous close.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn Friday, the rupee settled 4 paise higher at 83.01 against the US dollar. The currency market was closed on Monday on account of Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Jayanti.Jateen Trivedi, VP Research Analyst, LKP Securities, said the rupee strengthened as the dollar index weakened. "Additionally, a minor correction in crude prices after a strong rally provided support to the rupee. The financial sector's uptrend, evidenced by a 1.25 per cent gain in the Bank Nifty index, attracted fund inflows, further bolstering the rupee. Rupee's long consolidation persists within the range of 82.80-83.15," Trivedi said.The dollar index, which gauges the greenback's strength against a basket of six currencies, was 0.10 per cent lower at 104.07. Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, declined 0.59 per cent to USD 83.07 per barrel.
 
The news published on the date February 20, 2024 05:28 PM IST with headline  RBI Bulletin: Indian economy continues to sustain momentum of first half of FY24 is: 
 The central bank's economists give their assessment of the Indian economy in their monthly State of the Economy article published as part of the RBI bulletin. The growth momentum of the Indian economy from the first half of the current financial year is seen continuing into the second half, according to the Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) monthly bulletin."The Indian economy continues to sustain the momentum achieved in the first half of 2023-24, going by high frequency indicators. Expectations of a fresh round of capex by the corporate sector is likely to fuel the next leg of growth," the central bank's monthly State of the Economy article, released on February 20, said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: India faces 'problem of plenty' from foreign inflows, says JPMorganThe article includes Deputy Governor Michael Patra - one of the three RBI representatives on the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) - as one of its co-authors. The views expressed in the article do not reflect the central bank's official stance.The observations in the State of the Economy article come days ahead of the release of GDP data for October-December 2023, which will be published by the statistics ministry on February 29. According to the RBI's official forecast, GDP growth is seen moderating to 6.5 percent in the last quarter of 2023 from July-September's blockbuster number of 7.6 percent.
 
The news published on the date February 26, 2024 04:19 PM IST with headline  FM Sitharaman to meet over 20 fintechs today, discuss KYC norms and compliance is: 
 The FM is likely to emphasise on the importance to adhere to KYC norms and compliances Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is set to meet as many as 20 fintech firms, barring Paytm, on February 26, along with senior officials from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to emphasise the importance of KYC compliance, a senior government official said.“The Finance Minister is meeting the fintech firms sometime next week, possibly February 26 or 27. Senior officials from the RBI will also attend. At least 20 fintech firms, related to lending, payment processing and mutual funds are likely to be called for the meeting,” the official told Moneycontrol.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"However, Paytm is unlikely to be called for the meeting," he added.The meeting comes close on heels after the RBI asked the Paytm Payments Bank account holders, both customers and merchants, to move their assets and look for alternative banks till March 15 on account of major irregularities in KYC compliance.“The meeting is not on Paytm Payments Bank per se. Without taking any sides, the FM is likely to emphasise on the importance to adhere to KYC norms and compliances. Sitharaman will also hear the issues of the fintechs while urging them to comply,” the official said.
 
The news published on the date February 20, 2024 03:43 PM IST with headline  Talks with Tesla to slow down until general elections 2024: Government official is: 
 “India is not ready to bend over backwards for Tesla's entry." Talks between the Indian Government and Tesla, for its foray into the electric vehicles (EV) segment in the country, are likely to slow down due to the impending general elections, and will pick up steam later, a senior government official said.“The talks on Tesla’s entry into India are likely to happen after the elections, as electorally it may create controversies,” the official told Moneycontrol.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSpeculations were rife that the discussions between the Indian government and Tesla were near finalised and that the EV manufacturer has zeroed in on India to set up its next manufacturing unit.Gujarat Cabinet Minister, Rushikesh Patel, had said in December 2023, "The state government is very hopeful of Tesla coming to Gujarat. Even Elon Musk is looking at Gujarat as his first choice. Gujarat has been in his mind ever since he began a survey in India to find a suitable location to set up the plant".Tesla has been seeking tariff cuts on imported electric vehicles (EVs) while India was reportedly looking for the US-based company to set up a manufacturing unit here and increase its sourcing of components from the country. India levies a 100 percent duty on fully imported cars with a CIF (cost, insurance and freight) value surpassing $ 40,000. For cars valued below this threshold, the duty imposed is 70 percent.
 
The news published on the date February 20, 2024 02:43 PM IST with headline  Rs 1 lakh crore corpus to incentivise R&D amid India’s patent boom bodes well for innovation is: 
 The intensifying innovation in India is visible not only numerically but also qualitatively. While presenting the Interim Budget 2024-25 in Parliament on February 1, 2024, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced that a fund of Rs 1 lakh crore will be set up in the country, which will enable the private sector to undertake research and innovation in sunrise sectors. With the help of this fund, 50-year interest free loans will be provided. That is, this fund will provide long term financing or refinancing with low or zero interest rates. It is believed that the establishment of this fund by the government will give a new impetus to innovation in the country.Due to various policies, programmes and campaigns being adopted by the government for the last decade or so, innovation in the country has received a huge push, which is evident from the number of patents in the country. According to the data released recently by the government, the number of patents issued in India reached 41,010 during the first 8 months of the year 2023-24; that is, till November.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIt is noteworthy that 30,073 patents were granted in the entire year 2021-22, whereas in 2013-14 this number was only 4,227. It can be said that in the last decade, the number of patents issued in a year has increased by nearly 10 times. This is a boost to innovation, due to which more people are now applying for patents and more patents are being granted, than ever before. Last year, there was a 31.6 percent increase in the number of patent applications by Indians and this growth shows signs of accelerating further this year too.Exponential Rise in Patent ApplicationsIf we look at the global trends, the number of patent applications is continuously increasing all over the world. According to the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), there were 34 lakh patent applications in 2021, this number was 10 lakh in 1995, 20 lakh in 2010 and 30 lakh in 2016. But the growth rate in the number of patent applications in India in the last 10 years is much higher than the global growth rate.
 
The news published on the date February 20, 2024 03:03 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Have hotels cracked the growth code? is: 
 Indications are that hotels will keep up the growth momentum in FY25. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAmid capacity constraints in the aviation sector, hotels, another key segment in the travel and hospitality industry, are registering stellar financial performance.The Indian Hotels Co, EIH and ITC’s hotels division posted the best ever December quarter results. The industry saw a sizeable number of room additions last year. Yet, they managed to grow at a healthy pace, thanks to rising demand. Shares of Indian Hotels and EIH scaled new 52-week highs in Tuesday morning trade.Indications are that companies will keep up the growth momentum in FY25. Indian Hotels expects to continue to clock double-digit revenue growth next fiscal. According to Indian Hotels, demand growth is outpacing branded rooms supply. “Rooms demand per day up 65 percent and 19 percent, respectively, compared to 2015 and 2019,” EIH said in an investor update citing industry data.
 
The news published on the date February 20, 2024 02:15 PM IST with headline  Bond funds are not as safe as you thought is: 
 Some pension funds attempted to reduce hedging costs by leveraging their holdings of bonds. If you’re investing in bond funds for your pension, you’re probably doing it wrong. Don’t have to take my word for it; just consider the Bank of England. The Bank’s travails have highlighted the perils of bond investing, not just for personal investors, but also for the professionals.Bond yields have risen sharply since MPC members revealed a three-way split on February 1st. Two voted for tighter policy, one to ease and the rest for interest rates to remain unchanged.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdYet UK lawmakers are concerned about losses arising from the Bank selling some of the government bonds it accumulated during repeated episodes of quantitative easing since the 2008 financial crisis. The Treasury Select Committee, with its hearing on the topic Tuesday, estimates the lifetimecost to taxpayers of the Bank’s QE program to be £80 billion ($101 billion).The problem is that the low risk associated with investing in high-quality government debt only applies in the very specific circumstance of you holding your bonds to maturity. Only then do you benefit from their fixed value at redemption. If you sell before maturity, or worse still, if you’re a distressed seller, the losses can be huge, as the Bank’s current predicament demonstrates.Moreover, this risk is heightened at turning points in the interest rate cycle which we are approaching, when stocks and bonds are apt to become highly correlated, thus depriving investors of the other valuable property of bonds: portfolio diversification. In 2022, bond yields soared as central banks tightened policy, driving stock prices down sharply in the process. Late last year, the tables were turned with both stocks and bonds rallying in unison on (currently unfounded) optimism of rate cuts this year.
 
The news published on the date February 20, 2024 02:02 PM IST with headline  Softbank’s great semiconductor hope Arm isn’t the AI play you think it is is: 
 Arm can still benefit from the AI boom thanks to its business designing chips for data centers. (Representative image) Are AI stocks the new meme stocks? It certainly looks that way from the bonkers rally that Arm Holdings Plc recently had.Shares in the British semiconductor designer doubled between Feb. 5 and Feb. 12 to $149. They’ve since settled down to $128, perhaps as the market came to its senses. The catalyst was Arm’s third-quarter earnings, whose numbers were modestly good but sparked broader euphoria over Arm’s ability to ride the AI boom that propelled chipmaker Nvidia Corp to stratospheric heights.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTake that with a pinch of salt, though, because Arm isn’t directly involved in the hottest business in town: Nvidia’s oh-so-important AI chips.Nvidia’s GPU or graphics processing units were originally designed to render graphics in computer games, but over the years they have come to serve another purpose. Their superior parallel processing capabilities made them perfect for the computational demands of training and maintaining AI models. Today, GPUs are the gold standard for AI development and thus the equivalent of toilet paper during the pandemic. They’re incredibly hard to source and cost tens of thousands of dollars each. Insatiable demand for the chips, which are accessed via cloud providers like Amazon.com Inc and Microsoft Corp, has pushed Nvidia’s market cap to an astonishing $1.8 trillion from $323 billion at the end of 2020.Arm can still benefit from the AI boom thanks to its business designing chips for data centers, but that’ll be a picks-and-shovels style success — not the kind of immediate, direct advantage that Nvidia has from selling the product at the heart of AI development.
 
The news published on the date February 20, 2024 12:28 PM IST with headline  Maharashtra to be $1 trillion economy by 2027-28: Governor Ramesh Bais is: 
 Maharashtra to be $1 trillion economy by 2027-28: Governor Ramesh Bais Maharashtra Government has set an ambitious target of becoming a one trillion dollar economy by 2027-28, Governor Ramesh Bais informed the state legislature on Tuesday.This target is in line with the country's goal of becoming a five trillion dollar economy, Bais said, addressing the legislators at the start of the day-long special session of the legislature on Maratha quota at Vidhan Bhavan in south Mumbai.Story continues below Advertisement"In this year, 75 projects with Rs. 61,576 crore investment have been approved under the Package Scheme of Incentives, which will generate more than 53,000 employment opportunities in the state," he said."Maharashtra is the highest in attracting foreign direct investment in the country. There has been foreign direct investment of Rs. 65,500 crore in the state. This investment is 38.78 per cent of the country's total foreign direct investment," he said.In January 2024, the state government signed MoUs of more than Rs 3.53 lakh crore at the World Economic Forum held in Davos. This will lead to creation of two lakh jobs, he said
 
The news published on the date February 20, 2024 03:41 PM IST with headline  Chinese companies revive Mao Zedong-era militias is: 
 People’s Armed Forces departments could play an important role in maintaining domestic security. (Representative image) Edward White in ShanghaiChina’s state-owned enterprises have begun setting up in-house reserve military units, a legacy of the Mao Zedong era, in a sign of authorities’ increasing concern about social and political instability amid the country’s economic slowdown, according to analysts.A Financial Times analysis of company announcements and state media reports over 2023 shows that dozens of Chinese SOEs have established new People’s Armed Forces departments in recent months.The departments were historically groups affiliated with the People’
 
The news published on the date February 20, 2024 11:27 AM IST with headline  Detroit makes the same mistake on Chinese EVs it did with Japan is: 
 Detroit can only really defend itself against Chinese EV-makers if it develops products that can compete and undercut them. (Source: Bloomberg) Once upon a time, Japanese cars were seen as an exotic and quirky product that could never take on the might of Ford Motor Co and General Motors Co. Right now, Chinese EVs are in a similar place.“Corolla, New Economy Car, Is Shown Here by Toyota,” the New York Times yawned in a 1968 headline, introducing history’s best-selling automobile to the US market. Four years later, another piece noted with idle curiosity that Honda Motor Co. — “primarily a motorcycle name in the United States” — was starting to sell “diminutive” four-wheelers as well.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe story of the Big Three automakers’ hubristic fall to Japanese rivals is well-known, and should act as a warning to manufacturers who underestimate China’s competitive threat. With designers focused on large, powerful gas-guzzlers that earned better margins for Detroit’s inefficient production lines, the US auto industry in the 1970s failed to comprehend the appeal of affordable Japanese cars that sipped fuel, needed minimal maintenance, and came packed with standard features that local buyers were used to finding only as pricey add-ons.By 1981, heavy political pressure forced Japan to accept voluntary caps on the number of cars it would export to the US. In response, the Asian manufacturers set up luxury brands that could earn more export dollars for each vehicle sold under the cap, giving birth to premium brands such as Lexus, Infiniti, and Acura. Meanwhile, they built factories in the US itself, which could sell their popular vehicles free of trade restraints. About one in three US autoworkers is now employed by a Japanese company. Only pickup trucks, defended by a 25 percent tariff, have remained largely immune.Chinese EVs are currently as rare a presence in the US as Japanese compact cars in the late 1960s, put off by a 27.5 percent tariff imposed under the Trump administration and the tacit understanding that local factory investments won’t be welcomed.
 
The news published on the date February 20, 2024 11:20 AM IST with headline  Amazon deserves to be called out for swindling users is: 
 Amazon has been looking to crank up its revenues wherever it can while making cuts in other parts of its business. In June 2023, a California man named Wilbert Napoleon renewed his yearly subscription to Amazon Prime at the recently increased price of $139. Part of that deal, as heavily advertised, was Amazon’s promise of “unlimited, commercial-free, instant streaming” of entertainment through its Netflix competitor, Prime Video.But by January, Amazon had reneged on part of the deal. It announced that Prime Video would no longer be commercial free unless subscribers — even existing ones who had paid for a yearly plan — paid an extra $2.99 a month.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe move was part of a mad dash to boost streaming income after years of rampant investment and spiraling blockbuster budgets. Amazon’s Lord of the Rings series cost the company $1 billion in production costs but failed to attract much critical or popular acclaim. And, more broadly speaking, Amazon has been looking to crank up its revenues wherever it can while making cuts in other parts of its business.None of that is Napoleon’s problem, of course — so he’s launching a class action on behalf of himself and any other Prime member who rightly feels shortchanged, of which there could be tens of millions. “These subscribers should not have to pay an additional $2.99/month for something that they already paid for,” the filing reads.Amazon said it was unable to comment on pending litigation. In the past, these types of lawsuits have proved difficult to win thanks usually to some small print hiding out somewhere. In a separate case in 2020, for instance, a judge threw out claims Amazon had engaged in false advertising because it had removed some Prime Video content. Amazon had made it clear, the judge ruled, that its library of shows and movies was prone to change because of the expiration of licensing agreements or the agreement on new ones. That’s fair enough; generally speaking, when it comes to digital goods, you rarely own anything — instead you buy the right to access material for a limited time.
 
The news published on the date February 20, 2024 09:58 AM IST with headline  Inflation inequality: Why prices of lifestyle goods are easing for the rich while the poor struggle to buy essentials is: 
 Policymakers and economists have also raised concerns about the outdated nature of the current CPI basket. Inflation for certain 'lifestyle' products is cooling faster than it is for essentials, suggesting that the upwardly mobile income classes may not be feeling the pinch as much as those who spend more of their incomes on food items.According to a Lifestyle Inflation Index (LII) constructed by Bank of Baroda Research using data from the statistics ministry's Consumer Price Index (CPI), lifestyle inflation was at 6.4 percent in 2022-23 compared to the headline CPI inflation rate of 6.7 percent. However, so far in 2023-24, the lifestyle inflation rate is down at 4.5 percent, while headline inflation has averaged 5.4 percent in the first 10 months of the year.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: FM Sitharaman rejects K-shaped recovery theory for India, asks doubters to explainThe LII has been made using 69 of the 299 items present in the statistics ministry's CPI basket and includes lifestyle food products such as millets, chocolates, canned beverages, and foreign liquor to non-food items such as suits, leather boots, air fare, laptops, and club fees, among others."This index is a reflection of different preferential choices of consumers within the food, clothing and miscellaneous category, particularly reflecting lifestyle choices as one moves up the consumption ladder," Dipanwita Mazumdar, an economist at Bank of Baroda, said in a note on February 16.
 
The news published on the date February 20, 2024 09:15 AM IST with headline  MF share in PSU stocks scales fresh record high of 7.58% in Jan is: 
 MF holdings in public sector firms reached a new high in January at 7.58% of total AUM, up from 5.72% a year ago and 7.24% last month. Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × Mutual funds (MF) continued to load up on public sector company stocks in January, pushing many of them to record highs, even as the market stayed divided on valuations.MF holdings in public sector firms scaled a record high of 7.58 percent of total assets under management in January, up from 5.72 percent a year ago and 7.24 percent last month. There were 769 schemes across 41 mutual funds investing in PSU stocks in January, compared to 692 schemes and 37 mutual funds a year ago. In January 2018, MFs invested in only 45 listed PSUs and the number has shot up to 71, according to Primedatabase data.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn 2024 so far, the BSE PSU index has rallied 18 percent, compared to a 1 percent gain in the Nifty. Last year, too, PSUs had outperformed the Nifty by a wide margin of 55.3 percent as against 20 percent.The market value of MF holding in PSUs surged, exceeding Rs 4 lakh crore in January from Rs 2.33 lakh crore a year ago and Rs 3.7 lakh crore last month. In May 2020, amid the pandemic, the value of MF holdings in PSUs hit a low of Rs 1 lakh crore.
 
The news published on the date February 19, 2024 08:39 PM IST with headline  Niranjan Rajadhyaksha quits 16th Finance Commission, govt to appoint new member is: 
 The 16th Finance Commission met for the first time earlier this month on February 14. The government will name a new member to the 16th Finance Commission after Niranjan Rajadhyaksha excused himself citing personal reasons."Dr Rajadhyaksha has expressed his inability to take up this responsibility due to unforeseen personal circumstances," the government said in a statement on February 19.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdCentre "fully honoured" 41% tax share formula, says NK Singh"Action will be taken to appoint a Member of the 16th Commission in lieu of Dr Rajadhyaksha," it added.Rajadhyaksha, executive director of policy think tank Artha Global, was named as a member of the recently constituted 16th Finance Commission on January 31.
 
The news published on the date February 19, 2024 05:15 PM IST with headline  Sugar production likely to be on a downslide in 2023-24: Industry is: 
 Estimates of sugar production are at 316 lakh tonnes this year. The overall sugar production in 2023-24 is expected to witness a downslide owing to lower rainfall, which has led to lesser sugarcane plantation this year, said the industry.“The overall sugar production in this year is expected to be at a downslide than last year because of less rainfall which has led to lesser sugarcane plantations. However, the lower sugar production this year is not worrisome as the difference may not be huge as compared to last year, as the crushing season is ongoing and still not over,” All India Sugar Trade Association (AISTA) Chairman Praful Vithalani told Moneycontrol. AISTA estimates sugar production at 316 lakh tonnes this year as compared to 329 lakh tonnes in 2022-23.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTill February 15 in the current sugar season, the production has reached 223.68 lakh tons, against 229.37 lakh tons produced last year during the corresponding period, according to Indian Sugar Mills Association (ISMA).According to ISMA, sugar production in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Gujarat, and Tamil Nadu remained lower till February 15 of the ongoing marketing year.The production in Maharasthra -- the country's largest producing state of sugar -- was down at 7.94 million tonnes till February 15 of this marketing year, compared with 8.59 million tonnes in the year-ago period.Similarly, production in Karnataka -- the country's third largest producer -- was down at 4.32 million tonnes from 4.6 million tonnes in the said period. Sugar output reached 6,85,000 tonnes in Gujarat and 4,50,000 tonnes in Tamil Nadu till February 15 in this marketing year.
 
The news published on the date February 19, 2024 03:05 PM IST with headline  Tamil Nadu govt presents budget, revenue deficit over Rs 49,000 crore; fiscal deficit sees increase is: 
 Tamil Nadu govt presents budget, revenue deficit over Rs 49,000 crore; fiscal deficit sees increase The Tamil Nadu government on Monday presented the 2024-25 budget, estimating the revenue deficit at over Rs 49,000 crore and made new announcements aimed at achieving the "7 grand Tamil dream" which included social justice and women's welfare.Thangam Thennarasu, who replaced PTR Palanivel Thiagarajan as Finance Minister last year, presented his maiden budget, a paperless, e-budget.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe fiscal deficit in Revised Estimates 2023-24 is estimated to 'marginally increase' to Rs 94,060 crore as against Rs 92,075 crore in Budget Estimates.The fiscal deficit as a percentage of GSDP has increased from 3.25 per cent in Budget Estimates to 3.45 per cent in the Revised Estimates 2023-24, owing to a downward revision in the GSDP estimates.Thennarasu made a number of announcements in various sectors including housing, education and infrastructure.
 
The news published on the date February 19, 2024 03:06 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | When lowly earnings get a seat at the high table  is: 
 Geopolitics and economic growth can effect earnings and the corporate outlook. Dear Reader,Quarterly earnings are a constant in the market. The news may be good or bad, but it will be there. Sometimes they don’t matter much for valuations. For instance, when a liquidity tsunami lifts stocks to bizarre levels or when a drying up of the same liquidity drops it with a thud, earnings are a side show.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBut in times such as the present, they tend to matter a bit more. Central banks are pondering when rate cuts should land. Some of the world’s major economies are due to go in for elections in 2024. The economy takes a backseat as returning to power and the election outcome’s after-effects take centre stage. The Chinese economy is in no hurry to bounce back. Geopolitics remains an uncertain risk. Then, some new unknown will let loose some chaos, if the past is any indicator. The recent Red Sea crisis is an example.But, in earnings investors can trust. Of course, events such as geopolitics and economic growth do have a bearing on earnings and the corporate outlook. But, for Indian investors, broadly speaking, the country’s seen as being in a sweet spot, being the fastest growing large economy. Global investors are increasingly spotting it on their radar and seeking a larger share of the promised spoils.For instance, Blackrock’s recent weekly investment commentary highlights India and Mexico as two markets where it’s seeking out companies that can benefit from ‘mega forces’— structural shifts that can drive returns. It sees India benefiting from demographic divergence, and ‘India’s talent pool, start-up ecosystem and software firms with a global footprint’ make it an upcoming hub for artificial intelligence. Digital disruption and AI, it says, are also drivers of earnings growth, which convinces it to look past the fact that 12-month ahead, valuations are the highest in 20 years.
 
The news published on the date February 19, 2024 02:16 PM IST with headline  Sugar output falls 2.48% to 22.36 million tonnes till February 15 of this marketing year: ISMA is: 
 Sugar output falls 2.48% to 22.36 million tonnes till February 15 of this marketing year: ISMA The country's sugar production dipped 2.48 per cent to 22.36 million tonnes till February 15 of the ongoing 2023-24 marketing year, as per the industry body ISMA's latest data.Sugar production stood at 22.93 million tonnes in the year-ago period. Sugar marketing year runs from October to September.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn its second estimate, the Indian Sugar Mills Association (ISMA) has projected sugar output to decline by 10 per cent to 33.05 million tonnes in the current 2023-24 marketing year as against 36.62 million tonnes in the previous year.According to ISMA, sugar production in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Gujarat, and Tamil Nadu remained lower till February 15 of the ongoing marketing year.However, sugar output in Uttar Pradesh -- the country's second largest producer of the sweetener -- was higher at 6.77 million tonnes as against 6.12 million tonnes in the period under review.
 
The news published on the date February 19, 2024 01:35 PM IST with headline  Surging Cocoa Prices: A meltdown in chocolate is coming  is: 
 Cocoa farming has never been on an industrial scale. (Source: Bloomberg) The evening I learned the unspoken truth about the cocoa market I was in Yamoussoukro, the colossal capital city of Ivory Coast.“The problem with cocoa is that’s a poor man’s crop,” explained my dining companion, a government official-turned-businessman. “Do you see any commercial plantation around here? No,” he said. “And do you know why? Because prices aren’t high enough.”Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOnly because millions of West African farmers saw cocoa as their only way to escape abject poverty, the world had plentiful supply and low prices. As a result, you and I have been enjoying the pleasures of chocolate on the cheap for decades.Unlike most other agricultural commodities, cocoa hasn’t developed into a plantation business. At the prevailing prices of the 1990s and 2000s, it simply didn’t make commercial sense. The money was made around trading the beans, and processing them into chocolate — not planting, growing and harvesting cocoa trees.Today, the crop is still grown overwhelmingly by poor smallholders. Just making enough to subsist, most lack the means to re-invest in their plots. And finally, the decades of underinvestment have caught up with growing chocolate demand. For the third consecutive crop season, global consumption in 2023-24 will meaningfully surpass production – something unseen since the early 1960s.
 
The news published on the date February 19, 2024 02:16 PM IST with headline  Tamil Nadu govt presents budget with focus on the "7 grand Tamil dream" is: 
 Tamil Nadu govt presents budget with focus on the "7 grand Tamil dream" The Tamil Nadu government on Monday presented its budget for the year 2024-25, premising the exercise on the "7 grand Tamil dream," that included social justice and women's welfare at the core.Finance Minister Thangam Thennarasu presented the budget and made a slew of announcements.Story continues below AdvertisementThis included the "Kalaignarin Kanavu Illam," a housing scheme named after the late DMK patriarch and former Chief Minister M Karunanidhi. As per the scheme, 8 lakh concrete houses will be constructed in rural areas across the state to make it 'hut-free' by 2030, he said.Social justice, welfare of the marginalised, making Tamil youth global achievers were among the 7 goals, Thennarasu said in his budget speech.Among others, he announced allocating Rs 300 crore in budget for civic amenities including roads for areas nearby city corporations.Thennarasu said the state has made very significant progress in poverty reduction through its welfare schemes.The NITI Aayog has said that people below poverty line in Tamil Nadu was only about 2.2 per cent, he added
 
The news published on the date February 19, 2024 01:43 PM IST with headline  GIFT City tax regime for aircraft leasing needs a second look is: 
 The overall success of GIFT City hinges on the competitiveness of its tax regime. In the Interim Budget 2024, the Finance Minister proposed to allow the aircraft leasing community additional time till 31 March 2025, to commence leasing operations in GIFT City, to be eligible to avail certain key tax incentives. The extension will benefit non-resident aircraft lessors as well as the GIFT City leasing units. To be clear, non-resident aircraft lessors will not be taxable in respect of lease rental and interest income received from an aircraft leasing unit in GIFT City that has typically commenced operations till 31 March 2025. Similarly, the corporate tax holiday for aircraft leasing units in GIFT City will extend to income on disposal of aircraft, provided the unit has commenced operations till 31 March 2025.As already indicated by the Finance Minister prior to the Budget speech, the Interim Budget 2024 did not contain any significant tax proposals. A full fledged Union Budget 2024 will be presented by the newly elected government after the General Elections scheduled around mid-2024. Union Budget 2024 will be a good opportunity to fine tune the GIFT City tax regime, keeping in mind the unique requirements and challenges faced by the aviation industry.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdToo Short Cutoff DateNon-resident aircraft lessors planning to operate from GIFT City for the long-term, may find the sunset date extension inadequate. It is standard business practice among aircraft lessors to set up multiple special purpose vehicles (SPVs) for owning and leasing an aircraft. A non-resident aircraft lessor who has commenced operations in GIFT City before March 31, 2025, may face an unintended scenario – key tax incentives may not be available for such SPVs set up after March 31, 2025, as the condition for commencing operations is qua the SPV / GIFT City unit and not qua the business group.One way to resolve the issue is to provide specific tax incentives to an aircraft leasing business group that has commenced operations in GIFT City before March 31, 2025, so that SPVs set up by the group after the cut-off, can also avail of the tax incentives. Interestingly, the International Financial Services Centres Authority (IFSCA) has taken cognizance of the standard business practice for aircraft leasing and has allowed sharing of resources, including employees and office space, across multiple SPVs in GIFT City. Taking a cue from how IFSCA has dealt with the issue, the tax regime may also be suitably modified.
 
The news published on the date February 19, 2024 01:10 PM IST with headline  The new realism in venture capital is healthy is: 
 Investors will be moved to scrutinise even more carefully the sources of their private equity returns. Holden SpahtThe writer is managing partner at Thoma BravoThe stampede of new Silicon Valley unicorns emerging into the world has thinned into a straggling herd.Venture capital firm Cowboy Ventures recently reported that of 532 US start-ups with billion-dollar-plus valuations in 2023, 60 per cent were what it dubbed “Zirpicorns” — companies last priced between January 2020 and March 2022 when zero-interest rate policies propped up valuations.Times have changed. Higher interest rates are just one aspect of
 
The news published on the date February 19, 2024 04:29 PM IST with headline  Exclusive: Govt mulling new PLI scheme for pharma sector is: 
 Representative image The government is mulling over introducing a new production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for the pharmaceutical sector to boost the production of key chemicals critical to the manufacture of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs). In doing so, it aims to reduce Indian companies’ dependence on China for such supplies, sources told Moneycontrol.“The entire value chain of pharma is not covered under the current PLI due to which these input chemicals are still imported in bulk from China,” a person familiar with the development told Moneycontrol.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndia’s dependency on Chinese pharma imports is at 55-66 percent, and is expected to remain high in the coming years, according to a report by rating agency CareEdge.“The new PLI may come only after the formation of the new government and may be a part of the next Union Budget,” he said.According to a Care Ratings report, imports of bulk drugs from China have been soaring in terms of both value and volume, growing 64 and 62 percent in FY14, and by 71 and 75 per cent in FY23, respectively. In FY14, $2.1 billion pharma imports were from China which increased to $2.6 billion in FY19 and further rose to $3.4 billion in FY23.
 
The news published on the date February 19, 2024 01:15 PM IST with headline  How China’s economic pain will help US Fed rate cuts is: 
 China, Asia’s largest economy, is having a rough patch. It’s too soon to lose faith in the big idea that’s driven markets since December: Inflation is wounded, perhaps mortally, and the next move in interest rates will be down. If you are wavering, take a break from reading the entrails of US consumer prices, ruminating over whether hawks have the upper hand in Europe, or replaying the Reserve Bank of Australia chief's first press conference. You need to look at what’s transpiring in China.Asia’s largest economy, not long ago considered a contender to supplant the US, is having a rough patch. Growth has struggled after the pandemic,foreign investment is waning, and real estate companies are failing. But the most pernicious development has been deflation. When consumer prices posted a small decline in July, the figure was seen as a blip. It hasn't really let up and January showed the biggest drop since 2009.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe risk is that traders are so focused on Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell that they dismiss what Pan Gongsheng, his counterpart in Beijing, is contending with. That would be a mistake. The longer China refrains from meaningful efforts to arrest deflation, the greater the risk it becomes entrenched — and all the tougher to escape. Citigroup Inc. economists were prescient when they warned in May of a “confidence trap.” The opening of China’s economy, its entrance into the global labor pool and the World Trade Organization are widely considered to be seminal events.They were critical to the low-inflation regime that prevailed pretty much everywhere in the decades prior to Covid. China may once again prove pivotal — this time in eclipse. It will help drive inflation down from levels authorities around the world remain less than enthusiastic about, despite a pronounced retreat since mid-2022.Arguably, the battle is won. Officials just don’t want you to think so. The small chance they could be wrong is enough to persuade them to wait. June appears to be a more likely proposition for the Fed to kick off a global cycle than March, which policymakers never gave any serious indication they favoured, but that became an early pick among investors.
 
The news published on the date February 19, 2024 11:19 AM IST with headline  Much ado about Sora is: 
 An even bigger issue, perhaps, is the sheer money and other resources required by GenAI companies and whether the cost-benefit equation works out at all for these models (Representative image) OpenAI has launched Sora, a nifty product that will allow you to make videos using text commands. Sam Altman, CEO of OpenAI, has used his X account to share some of the amazing videos made using Sora. Earlier, OpenAI had only two Generative AI models. One was ChatGPT, which allowed you to write essays, ad campaigns and even short stories – based on text prompts. The other was DALL-E, which created images based again on the tex
 
The news published on the date February 19, 2024 09:19 AM IST with headline  Chart of the Day | Inflation-adjusted corporate sales growth in good health is: 
 - Cast your eyes on the accompanying table. It shows net sales growth year-on-year, adjusted for inflation, for the listed non-financial corporate sector, which the CMIE helpfully provides. We have taken the December quarter numbers from 2018 onwards, comparing like with like to eliminate seasonal effects.The table shows that the overall inflation-adjusted sales growth for the non-financial and manufacturing sectors improved during the December 2023 quarter, compared to the December 2022 quarter. The same can’t be said abou
 
The news published on the date February 19, 2024 09:10 AM IST with headline  Farmers’ protests: What do the economic data say? is: 
 What may need reiterating is the crying need to get people out of agriculture The farmers’ protest this time around seems to be a pale shadow of the earlier agitation against the government’s proposed farm laws back in 2020-21. The arguments against bowing down to the farmers’ demands remain the same and we had listed them comprehensively here and . There isn’t much point rehashing them.(image) What may need reiterating is the crying need to get people out of agriculture
 
The news published on the date February 19, 2024 08:27 AM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Market Outlook | Possibility of a new high this week, but stay cautious is: 
 We will have to wait and see how the market performs this time. Dear Reader,Starting on a weak note, Indian markets recovered towards the end of the week, closing nearly one per cent higher. After two weeks, the Indian market rose higher while US markets closed in the red.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndian markets closed sharply lower at the start of the week but soon recovered and closed the week near its high.Markets were looking overbought at the end of the previous week, and a sharp fall on Monday helped release some of the pressure. However, markets have steadily crawled higher, further building the pressure.Despite the upmove, foreign institution investors continue to sell, with sales of Rs 6,237.55 crore in the last week. FII sales for February have touched nearly Rs 14,000 crore; for 2024, it is Rs 50,000 crore in the cash market.
 
The news published on the date February 17, 2024 11:06 AM IST with headline  Business in the Week Ahead (February 19-23, 2024) is: 
 Planner The December 2023 quarter (Q3 FY24) results season is drawing to a close. Aggregate earnings of the Nifty 50 index companies outpaced revenue growth, helped by better profit margins. Strong marketing margins boosted the earnings of the oil marketing companies. The focus will now shift to FY25.On the macro front, higher than expected inflation in the US stoked concerns that the Federal Reserve may delay interest rates cuts. More clarity will emerge next week when the U
 
The news published on the date February 16, 2024 09:04 PM IST with headline  India faces 'problem of plenty' from foreign inflows post bond index inclusion, US rate cuts is: 
 Starting June, Indian government bonds will become a part of JPMorgan’s Government Bond Index-Emerging Markets (GBI-EM) global index suite. Indian sovereign debt is set to see sizeable foreign inflows in 2024-25, but the local currency may not appreciate much due to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) exercising close control over the exchange rate.Starting June, Indian government bonds will become a part of JPMorgan's Government Bond Index-Emerging Markets (GBI-EM) global index suite, which is seen bringing in foreign money to the tune of nearly $25 billion into local debt over a 10-month period.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: Confident of handling higher inflows post JPMorgan bond index inclusion, says RBI Governor"The index is about $230 billion. India's weight is about 10 percent, so $25-30 billion of additional flows (could come). And I think that there will probably be limited appreciation from just that quantum," Chetan Ghate, director of Institute of Economic Growth and former member of the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC), said on February 16.Ashima Goyal, Emeritus Professor at Mumbai's Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research and a current member of the MPC, added that considering the inclusion of Indian debt into JPMorgan's indices will be over a period of 10 months, the development is unlikely to "create any volatility" and that it will be absorbed.
 
The news published on the date February 16, 2024 05:27 PM IST with headline  Income Tax recovers Rs 115 cr from Congress bank accounts, Rs 19 cr pending is: 
 Rs 115 cr recovery has been made between February 13-15, 2024. The income tax department has so far recovered approximately Rs 115 crore from Indian National Congress (INC) bank accounts against the total outstanding demand of Rs 135 crore for assessment year 2018-19 arising on account of non-compliance of certain sections of the Act and late filing of returns, sources said.“At present, recovery to the tune of Rs 115 crore has been made by withdrawing money from various bank accounts of INC. In proceedings before Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) on February 16, 2024, it was informed by the Income Tax Department that the recovery made by withdrawing money from accounts is a routine recovery measure,” the source told Moneycontrol.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHowever, sources clarified that the operation or activity of the accounts of INC has not been stopped. INC has many more accounts for its activities, a fact which was taken note of by the ITAT.The hearing has now been fixed for February 21, 2024, by ITAT.The demand of Rs 135 crore against INC for assessment year 2018-19 includes Rs 103 crore on account of assessment and interest of Rs 32 crore approximately. The assessment was done on INC’s income of Rs 199 crore for the year, he said.The scrutiny assessment under Section 143(3) under the Income Tax Act, involving a detailed examination of INC’s return to validate various claims and deductions was completed on July 6, 2021. In the assessment, exemption under Section 13A was disallowed. According to Section 13A, any income of a political party is exempt from tax that is sourced from house property, capital gains, etc.
 
The news published on the date February 16, 2024 04:58 PM IST with headline  The Reading List: February 16, 2024 is: 
 A selection of articles and social media gems from the world of economy, business and finance. In a world strapped for time, we thought you may find it useful to have a selection of articles we read this past week. As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. Occasionally, we may stray from these subjects.These links may be from external websites we frequent o
 
The news published on the date February 16, 2024 04:26 PM IST with headline  CEA Nageswaran says energy transition may endanger global macro stability is: 
 Nageswaran was speaking in Mumbai at Indian Institute of Management-Kozhikode’s inaugural annual conference on macroeconomics, banking, and finance. The transition from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources can make the world's future riskier instead of de-risking it, Chief Economic Adviser V Anantha Nageswaran has said.Speaking in Mumbai on February 16 at Indian Institute of Management-Kozhikode's inaugural annual conference on macroeconomics, banking, and finance, the government's top economist said the global energy transition will see the world become more dependent on critical minerals and rare earths.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: China's weaponisation of rare earths threatens a crisisRare earths is a group of 17 metals that are key inputs in the making of high-tech devices such as mobile phones, electric vehicles and lasers."The production of these rare earths and critical minerals is concentrated in a few countries but the processing of them happens exclusively in one country," Nageswaran said, alluding to China.
 
The news published on the date February 16, 2024 03:56 PM IST with headline  For battered Europe IPOs, two years in the stock market is a lifetime is: 
 Some IPOs now look like a source of impatient capital. (Source: Bloomberg) Back when Spotify Technology SA was only a few years old, I visited the cramped offices of French music startup Believe SA, which had the promising pitch of one day becoming a digital record label for the streaming era. The bet paid off: The company listed on the Paris stock market a decade later in 2021 at a €1.9 billion ($2 billion) valuation, and was hailed by the French government as an example of how its tech scene could hold its own against the likes of the US.Only three years on, the story is nearing a sorry end. Believe’s co-founder Denis Ladegaillerie is moving to take the company private, with the backing of investment funds EQT AB and TCV, at €15 a share, or approximately 23 percent below its initial public offering (IPO). The scale of the stock’sunderperformance stands out — as low as that bid looks, it’s almost 30 percent above where the stock was a week ago. So does the speed at which Ladegaillerie and his fellow insiders (representing about 70 percent of the share capital) are looking to whisk the company away from the harsh glare of the public markets. Believe hasn’t even reached the end of its 2022-2025 IPO-funded growth plan.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhat happens next will be a key test of minority shareholders’ ability to push for a better offer. Believe’s current share price, which is close to the proposed bid, implies a lower valuation multiple in terms of sales and underlying earnings than rival Universal Music Group NV, according to Bloomberg data.But this story goes well beyond French tech startups. It highlights Europe’s complex struggle to revive its beleaguered stock markets in the face of anemic IPOs, weak performance and mounting delistings.
 
The news published on the date February 16, 2024 03:19 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Keeping finance clean is: 
 finance Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFinancial entities are being pulled up left, right and centre by the regulator on transgressions involving simple know-your-customer processes to serious ones such as evergreening of loans. Over the past year, mainstream banks such as Standard Chartered Bank, Axis Bank and HDFC Bank have been penalised by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) for violating the norms. Others, such as Paytm Payments Bank Ltd has faced a sledgehammer which threatens to put a lock on their business.It may seem that the regulator is being draconian, but the truth is far from it.Take the case of Paytm. The RBI banned the fintech pioneer’s payments bank from onboarding new customers beginning March. This means Paytm itself needs to find a nodal bank where its wallet customers can house their balances. Banks are unwilling to partner up. The reason is that the RBI’s allegations pertain to serious and repeated breaches of KYC norms that in turn has the risk to facilitate money laundering and fraud.
 
The news published on the date February 16, 2024 02:50 PM IST with headline  India resumes buying Russian Sokol oil after 2-month hiatus, sources say is: 
 India resumes buying Russian Sokol oil after 2-month hiatus, sources say India has resumed imports of Russian Sokol oil after a two-month gap with at least two refiners so far taking deliveries of the light sweet crude in February, four trade sources said and ship tracking data showed.India's Hindustan Petroleum Corp has bought Sokol oil from a trader, the sources said. HPCL is likely to pay for the oil in UAE dirhams, three of them added.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndian state refiners had to stop buying the grade last year after the government advised them against using Chinese yuan to pay for Russian oil amid strained relations between New Delhi and Beijing.That led to more than 10 million barrels of unsold Sokol floating in seaborne storages in one of the biggest disruptions to Russian oil trade since the West imposed sanctions on Moscow over its military actions in Ukraine.India did not receive Sokol oil in December and January, data from trade sources and the ship tracking data shows.
 
The news published on the date February 16, 2024 02:44 PM IST with headline  UK Recession: Stagnating economy is crying out for rate cuts  is: 
 What's important now for an economy dead in the water is that the central bank signals it will be easing monetary conditions in the not-too-distant future. The UK has become stagnation nation with gross domestic product per head falling for seven consecutive quarters. It puts the government in an even tighter predicament as contraction in the third and fourth quarters confirmed that the economy is in recession, destroying one of Prime Minister Rishi Sunak’s five tests. The March 6 budget from Chancellor of the Exchequer Jeremy Hunt may introduce public-sector spending reductions to fund tax cuts, but with limited fiscal room for maneuver, he — and the economy — could do with some help from the monetary side of the equation.The message from this week’s economic data is pretty gloomy. GDP shrank by 0.3 percent in the final three months of last year, after a 0.1 percent contraction in the previous quarter. For all of 2023, the economy grew just 0.1 percent; more worrying is 1 percent compression in the private sector in the final nine months of last year. There’s little sign of respite with ongoing public-sector strikes, and Bloomberg Economics expects a further 0.1 percent contraction in the current quarter.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdInflation stayed at 4 percent in January, continuing the trend of consumer prices behaving better than the Bank of England had forecast, with core inflation also steady at 5.1 percent. The broader trend is unmistakably for slower price increases; while prices in the services sector prices did tick up one notch to 6.5 percent, that was also lower than estimates.So far there’s little evidence of cost-push inflation from the attacks on ships in the Red Sea. Food inflation slowed to a 7 percent annual pace from 8 percent previously. An even stronger signal is coming from food producer prices, which have stopped increasing and which typically lead supermarket prices by around six months. With drop of as much as 25 percent in energy prices expected due to the lowering of price caps in April and July,Bloomberg Economics expects headline inflation to fall below the 2 percent target this spring and head lower over the summer.December's employment and wage data did blip above the BOE’s February forecasts, but annualised wage growth of 5.8 percent was down from 6.5 percent in November, illustrating the downtrend has momentum. The respected KPMG/REC private-sector employment survey is flashing red, noting that "permanent staff appointments fell at a sharp and accelerated pace." Starting salary wage growth is the weakest for three years, while the overall pay survey is consistent with 3 percent pay growth, according to Bloomberg’s Chief UK Economist Dan Hanson, who noted that it tends to lead official data by about nine months.
 
The news published on the date February 16, 2024 02:44 PM IST with headline  Headline inflation should soon come down to core inflation levels, says Ashima Goyal is: 
 Goyal was speaking in Mumbai at Indian Institute of Management-Kozhikode’s inaugural annual conference on macroeconomics, banking, and finance. India's headline inflation rate should "soon" come down to core inflation levels, Ashima Goyal, an external member of the Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) has said."Research now suggests, in current situations, it is core which is more steady and that affects inflation expectations and headline comes down to core. So we should see this happen soon," Goyal said on February 16 in Mumbai at Indian Institute of Management-Kozhikode's inaugural annual conference on macroeconomics, banking, and finance.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: De-risking from China supply chain to take longer than thought, says CEA NageswaranCore inflation is the rate of inflation without taking into account food and fuel items, whose prices can be volatile.Data released on February 12 showed that India's headline retail inflation eased to a three-month low of 5.10 percent in January. This is the 52nd month in a row that it has been above the RBI's medium-term target of 4 percent.
 
The news published on the date February 16, 2024 01:26 PM IST with headline  Goldman sees India potential growth above 6% this decade is: 
 Goldman sees India potential growth above 6% this decade India’s economic growth may exceed 6% for the rest of the decade, driving more investments from China into the South Asian country, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s India economist said.The long term growth potential is likely “inching higher toward 6.5%, or slightly higher,” Santanu Sengupta said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s Haslinda Amin Friday. He forecast growth at 6.3% for the next fiscal year that starts in April, lower than Reserve Bank of India’s projection of 7%.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndia’s demographics, strong government-led spending and healthy domestic demand makes it a “favorable destination for investments going forward,” he said.Potential growth is an estimate of the pace an economy can grow at without causing excess inflation. India’s central bank governor last month estimated the nation’s potential growth rate was around 7%.Goldman Sachs expects the private sector in India to accelerate investments after nationwide elections. Businesses have deleveraged aggressively and their balance sheets are among the “cleanest that we have seen India in the last 20 years or so,” he said.
 
The news published on the date February 16, 2024 01:27 PM IST with headline  De-risking from China supply chain to take longer than thought, says CEA Nageswaran is: 
 Nageswaran was speaking in Mumbai at Indian Institute of Management-Kozhikode’s inaugural annual conference on macroeconomics, banking, and finance. De-risking economies from the Chinese supply chain is not going to be a quick process for the world and will take much longer than thought, Chief Economic Advisor V Anantha Nageswaran said."When we talk of de-risking from China supply chain, we should be under no illusion that it is not something that can be achieved at the speed with which you can put out a tweet. It is going to take much longer," Nageswaran said on February 16 in Mumbai at Indian Institute of Management-Kozhikode's inaugural annual conference on macroeconomics, banking, and finance.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: India aims at deep integration in global supply chains, says Sumita DawraThe chief economic advisor's comments come amid the government's ongoing efforts to become self-reliant and make India a bigger part of the global supply chain. The focus on playing a bigger role in the global supply chain came after the Covid pandemic saw huge disruptions in trade channels, which in turn affected domestic economic activity.According to Nageswaran, China's involvement in global trade is such that any diversification of supply chains is going to be extremely difficult for other countries. In fact, when countries try to do so, it only results in rerouting of Chinese products.
 
The news published on the date February 16, 2024 11:59 AM IST with headline  India initiates anti-dumping probe into imports of solar glass from China, Vietnam is: 
 India initiates anti-dumping probe into imports of solar glass from China, Vietnam India has initiated an anti-dumping probe into imports of certain solar glass from China and Vietnam, following a complaint by domestic players.The commerce ministry's investigation arm Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR) is probing the alleged dumping of 'Textured Tempered Coated and Uncoated Glass' made or from China and Vietnam.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe product is also known by various names such as solar glass or solar photovoltaic glass in the market parlance.An application has been filed by Borosil Renewables Ltd on behalf of the domestic industry for the probe and the imposition of appropriate anti-dumping duty on imports."On the basis of the duly substantiated application by the domestic industry, and having satisfied itself, on the basis of prima facie evidence submitted by the applicant substantiating the dumping and consequent injury to the domestic industry, the authority hereby initiates an anti-dumping investigation into the alleged dumping," the notification said.
 
The news published on the date February 16, 2024 11:34 AM IST with headline  Why we need to incentivise the creation of quality jobs is: 
 Low unemployment rate of India masks the problem of low quality jobs. Highlights:Two videos that highlight long applicants’ queue and protests show the stark picture of unemployment in IndiaLow unemployment rate of India masks the problem of low quality jobsJobs are not commensurate with skills available and sustained growth hasn’t resolved the issueGovernment needs to offer incentives to private sector to create more quality employment Two videos which went viral on social media last week tell us more about the state of employment – or rather, unemployment – in Indi
 
The news published on the date February 16, 2024 10:36 AM IST with headline  Rs 20 lakh cr pending direct tax demands under litigation: Govt official is: 
 Some tax disputes may be resolved through settlements, agreements, or alternative dispute resolution mechanisms. Direct tax demands worth Rs 18 lakh crore -20 lakh crore are under litigation in various cases currently across sectors including transfer pricing, royalty payments, classification of income under various heads, deductions claimed by taxpayers and other cases, a senior government official told Moneycontrol.Also Read | I-T department alleges evasion by insurers, likely to send Rs 25,000 cr tax noticesStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSome tax disputes may be resolved through settlements, agreements, or alternative dispute resolution mechanisms, leading to adjustments in the quantum of direct tax under litigation.Direct tax litigation cases refer to legal disputes arising from the assessment and collection of direct taxes, such as income tax, corporate tax, and capital gains tax. These cases typically involve disagreements between taxpayers and tax authorities regarding the interpretation or application of tax laws, regulations, or tax assessments.In India, direct tax litigation cases are quite common due to the complex tax laws and the large number of taxpayers. The Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT), High Courts, and the Supreme Court are the primary forums for resolving direct tax disputes.
 
The news published on the date February 16, 2024 10:09 AM IST with headline  Could recessions actually help save lives? is: 
 There are other ways recessions might help us live longer. The human and economic costs of recessions are deep and well-documented. They can also have real health benefits, however, and seldom are they expressed so starkly as in this sentence in a new paper from the National Bureau of Economic Research: “The Great Recession provided one in twenty-five 55-year-olds with an extra year of life.”That’s easily hundreds of thousands of Americans. Overall, the paper notes, age-adjusted mortality in the US fell by 2.3 percent during the Great Recession. The finding, from professors at MIT, the University of Chicago and McMasters University, broadly tracks previous research showingthat that mortality rates rise in good times and fall in hard times.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHow might this be true?One answer is related to air pollution, which is lower in recessions, typically because of reduced economic activity. The benefits of lower pollution levels persist long after the recession — at least 10 years, according to the researchers’ estimates. Air pollution reduction accounts for more than one-third of the mortality benefits from the Great Recession.There are other ways recessions might help us live longer. Some people who lose their jobs might be able to spend more time exercising, for example, or engaging in self-care more generally. Others might have less money to spend on alcohol and other drugs. The overall quality of health care might improve as the industry is able to attract a better-educated workforce.
 
The news published on the date February 16, 2024 10:19 AM IST with headline  Jefferies backs rally in oil marketing stocks despite margin declines is: 
 Jefferies India, in a recent update, corrected its earlier concern, acknowledging the market's support for the oil marketing companies' rally which jumped around 90-130 percent since October. Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × Jefferies has corrected its apprehension in the 90-130 percent rally in shares of oil marketing companies since October and regained confidence in the OMC stocks on the back of stable prices and government restraint.The brokerage was worried about potential government intervention in retail fuel prices in the run-up to the elections. But now, more confident about the strength in the sector, Jefferies appeared optimistic about normative marketing margins in FY25.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdJefferies said the Red Sea disturbances boosted refining margins, and the diesel marketing loss may be temporary, with potential post-election price hikes. With a Goldilocks outlook and the expectation of OMC multiples returning to past peaks, BPCL offers the greatest margin of safety. It upgraded BPCL to 'buy' and raised its target price to Rs 890 a share, while it maintained a 'hold' on Indian Oil with a price target of Rs 215 and 'underperform' rating on HPCL and a price target of Rs 550.Despite geopolitical events in the Middle East and militancy in the Red Sea, crude oil prices have stayed within the $75-85 range since November, even though the Red Sea disruption affects around 10 percent of global crude shipments. A significant oil price increase in CY2024 seems unlikely unless OPEC+ shifts from voluntary to compulsory production cut adherence, Jefferies said in a note.The Red Sea route, through which 14 percent of global refined product supplies are shipped, has experienced a 50 percent decrease in tanker transit since December. This has led to longer shipping times, delayed supplies, and a 40 percent surge in diesel spreads since December. The forward curve indicates that diesel spreads could remain elevated into 1QFY25, it added.
 
The news published on the date February 16, 2024 10:19 AM IST with headline  BJP's opponents have benefited from electoral bonds as well is: 
 When the details of the electoral bonds are released by March 13, Indians will know all details about who bought them and who received them. Highlights:The SC verdict shuts down an assured source of funds to political parties that had benefitted by the anonymity electoral bonds granted to donorsWhen the details of the electoral bonds are released by March 13, Indians will know all details about who bought them and who received themWhat's clear is that it's not just the BJP but even the Congress and regional parties that have got substantial sums via this routeUltimately, political parties need a transparent an
 
The news published on the date February 16, 2024 08:20 AM IST with headline  MC Pro Inside Edge: Vedanta deal disappoints bulls, turbulence ahead for Indigo, the banker’s cut, break in clouds for HDFC Bank? is: 
 It is raining profits for merchant bankers in SME initial public offerings (IPOs) WhodunnitThe much awaited block deal in Vedanta did happen, but not exactly in the way that the bulls in the stock were hoping for. The good news is that the company has managed to raise funds without diluting equity as it races against clock to repay bondholders. But the question is: who were the buyers for the shares that the promoter group sold? There has been chatter for a while that Rajiv Jain-owned GQG was interested i
 
The news published on the date February 15, 2024 07:06 PM IST with headline  Govt invites applications for members of GST Appellate Tribunal is: 
 Minimum age to apply is 50 years. The Department of Revenue has invited applications for appointment to the posts of the Judicial Members, Technical Members (Centre) and Technical Member (State) in Principal Bench and States Benches of GST Appellate Tribunal (GSTAT), the Finance Ministry said in a statement.Eligible candidates are required to apply online and application portal would be accessible from February 19 until 5 pm on March 31.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdGSTAT is the second Appellate Authority established under the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (CGST Act) to hear various appeals. GSTAT will have one Principal Bench located at Delhi and 31 State benches located at various locations across states, it said.Applications are invited for 63 posts of judicial members with the eligibility criteria of being a Judge of the High Court, or Serving or retired District Judge or Additional District Judge with 10 years of combined experience, or Lawyer with 10 years of experience with substantial experience in litigation in matters relating to indirect taxes.For 32 posts of Technical Member (Centre), the eligibility for officers is of at least 25 years of experience in Group A in Indian Revenue Service (Customs and Indirect Tax), or All India Service with at least 3 years in indirect taxes or finance and tax in the Central Government.
 
The news published on the date February 16, 2024 12:16 PM IST with headline  That Sinking Feeling: Still gripped by economic crisis, Pakistan grapples with deepening political uncertainties is: 
 The challenge for Pakistan is to mend its economy. The outcome of recent elections has increased political uncertainties in Pakistan. The elections resulted in Independent candidates supporting Imran Khan winning 92 seats (Total number of Independents 101). This exceeded the tally of PML-N (79) and PPP (54) seats. No party secured a simple majority. A coalition government has been announced headed by Shehbaz Sharif. This includes PML(N), PPP, MQM, and smaller parties. While they would be able to muster a majority, it would be a weak coalition. Its legitimacy is questioned by PTI, which termed it a ‘stolen mandate’.Most commentators had written off Imran Khan after the Army crackdown on his party following the events of May 9 when his supporters ransacked the Lahore Corps Commander’s residence and attacked Army GHQ in Rawalpindi. PTI was not allowed to contest under its election symbol bat.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdUnwieldy Coalitions AheadIs this a vote for Imran Khan or a vote against the Army? The economic distress with inflation running at above 35 percent was bound to generate a backlash against the incumbent government. By forcing Imran out of power, the Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM) incurred the political costs of incumbency though they got an Army Chief of their choice. General Asim Munir’s term runs out in November 2025. Till then, the dispensation headed by Shehbaz Sharif will have political insurance.There are no winners. In the short run, the Army has won. A weak government offers no challenge to the Army’s growing role in the country. Both Nawaz Sharif and Imran Khan are sidelined. However, the Army’s legitimacy and the authority of its chief are dented by Imran’s supporters getting the highest number of seats. Nawaz Sharif was not able to neutralise Imran’s appeal in Punjab and had to bow out. PML(N) is reduced to the status of a regional party.
 
The news published on the date February 15, 2024 10:46 PM IST with headline  Red Sea crisis may have limited India's goods export growth in January: Official is: 
 The Red Sea strait is crucial for 30 percent of global container traffic and 12 percent of global trade Indian exports could have registered higher growth in January if the crisis in the Red Sea hadn't disrupted trade by forcing freight companies to take the longer route around Africa to reach the west, or wait at nearby ports for safe passage through the Suez Canal, a senior government official said."It is not like there has been no impact, it is possible that our exports growth could have been higher without the Red Sea situation. However, despite the Red Sea crisis we have been able to sustain a growth in exports," the official said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndia's merchandise trade deficit narrowed to $17.49 billion in January as exports edged up by 3.1 percent year-on-year despite the ongoing crisis in the Red Sea.According to data released by the commerce ministry on February 15, India's exports in the first month of 2024 amounted to $36.92 billion, up from $35.80 billion in January 2023 but down from $38.45 billion in December 2023.The drop in exports in January 2024 compared to December 2023 is primarily on account of seasonality, Commerce Secretary Sunil Barthwal separately said during a briefing on February 15. Goods exports fell nearly 4 percent in the first month of 2024 compared to the previous month.
 
The news published on the date February 15, 2024 04:06 PM IST with headline  Rupee falls 2 paise to close at 83.04 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee falls 2 paise to close at 83.04 against US dollar The rupee consolidated in a narrow range and depreciated by 2 paise to close at 83.04 (provisional) against the US dollar on Thursday, tracking a strong American currency and elevated crude oil prices in the international market. Forex traders said the Indian currency depreciated as foreign fund outflows weighed on the rupee. However, positive domestic markets cushioned the downside.At the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 83.00 and finally settled at 83.04 (provisional) against the dollar, down by 2 paise from its previous close. During the day, the rupee witnessed a range-bound movement. It saw an intra-day high of 82.99 and a low of 83.04 against the American currency.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn Wednesday, the rupee appreciated 6 paise to close at 83.02 against the US dollar. "We expect the rupee to trade with a slight positive bias on rise in risk appetite in global markets and a negative tone in the US dollar. Overnight decline in global crude oil prices and better than expected trade balance may further support rupee," said Anuj Choudhary, Research Analyst, Sharekhan by BNP Paribas.However, concerns over FII outflows may cap sharp upside. "Any recovery in the US dollar may also weigh on the rupee at higher levels. Traders may take cues from retail sales, industrial production, Empire State Manufacturing Index and weekly unemployment claims data from the US. USD-INR spot price is expected to trade in a range of Rs 82.80 to Rs 83.20," Choudhary added.The dollar index, which gauges the greenback's strength against a basket of six currencies, was 0.10 per cent down at 104.61. Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, was trading 0.40 per cent lower to USD 81.27 per barrel.
 
The news published on the date February 15, 2024 03:16 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Start-up ethos put to test is: 
 In start-ups, the onus lies with the founder-promoter for a considerable period of time. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAfter several years of hype, there are tremors threatening the world of start-ups. In the news is Paytm (One 97 Communication), whose shares are tumbling into what seems to be a bottomless pit. The fintech stock’s market capitalization is down 66 per cent from its 52-week high. Investors are fleeing it after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) decided to virtually down the shutters on Paytm Payments Bank after a host of compliance lapses and other alleged transactional irregularities.Is the contagion spreading to other fintechs? Often regulatory audits trigger a series of related follies or scams often involving more companies. Today’s news report in Moneycontrol states that apart from Paytm, four more companies are under scrutiny.This is not all. India’s start-up edtech icon Byju’s is battling inquiries on grounds of financial irregularities, misgovernance, non-payment of salaries and the ire of disgruntled customers. Albeit not in the listed universe, the company’s valuation has reportedly crashed from $22 billion in October 22 to as low as $200 million now. Indeed, even before this, several edtech firms unable to weather competition and high cost of business shut shop last year, stories of which may not have come to light even.
 
The news published on the date February 15, 2024 02:52 PM IST with headline  How digital lending ecosystem’s triad of RBI, lenders and consumers can close ranks to tackle fraudulent apps is: 
 There is a need for a nodal agency to register and evaluate the digital lending apps. The rapid digitisation of financial services has been one of the key enablers for access and enhanced consumer experience. However, this digitisation has also given rise to increasing financial frauds in the sector which needs specific attention. Specifically, the increasing incidents of financial fraud in the digital lending sector have been very concerning. There have been several reported instances where loans were given to individuals at high interest rates and companies engaged in predatory recovery practices which negatively impacts consumers.Digital lending as a service has emerged as one of the biggest catalysts in financial services for providing micro and small loans/credits to businesses and individuals. There is no doubt that it has successfully filled the gap left by the traditional banking system in terms of providing easy loans to consumers who were not able to avail loans, either because of not having collaterals to offer or being hesitant to deal with the daunting banking system.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRBI Takes NoteHowever, as is the case with any nascent industry, it is also plagued with financial fraud by bad actors which are essentially undermining the reputation and credibility of this sector. To bring some coherency and accountability to the sector, RBI in 2022, came out with comprehensiveDigital Lending Guidelines which impose numerous obligations on the NBFCs and Fintech companies operating in this space.Further, the constant mushrooming of illegal digital lending apps also led to the government banning approximately 90 apps earlier this year in a whitelisting exercise. However, this problem is still not solved yet and there is a need for a collaborative and partnership-led approach at an ecosystem level to tackle this issue. Given that it is an ecosystem issue, three key groups of stakeholders at different levels have to work together to bring accountability in this sector.
 
The news published on the date February 15, 2024 06:58 PM IST with headline  India's January exports up 3%, trade deficit at a 9-month low despite Red Sea crisis is: 
 India's merchandise trade deficit stood at $19.8 billion in December 2023. India's merchandise trade deficit narrowed to $17.49 billion in January, lowest in nine months, as exports edged up by 3.1 percent year-on-year despite the ongoing crisis in the Red Sea disrupting trade as commercial vessels traversing through the Suez Canal face attacks from Yemen-backed Houthi rebels.The merchandise trade deficit stood at $19.80 billion in December 2023.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe January goods trade deficit print is the lowest since April 2023 when the gap came in at $15.24 billion.Also Read: India's Russian oil buys get dearer on detour due to Houthi attacksAccording to data released by the commerce ministry on February 15, India's exports in the first month of 2024 amounted to $36.92 billion, up from $35.80 billion in January 2023 but down from $38.45 billion in December 2023.
 
The news published on the date February 15, 2024 02:12 PM IST with headline  Indian banks' margins set to fall, credit growth to moderate in FY25: S&P is: 
 Indian banks' margins set to fall, credit growth to moderate in FY25: S&P Funding conditions in India are likely to play a crucial role in constraining loan growth for many banks in the country, and credit expansion could moderate by 200 basis points in the next fiscal year, S&P Global Ratings said in note on Thursday.The rating agency expects system-level credit growth to moderate to 14% in FY25, starting April 1, from about 16% annual growth in the first three quarters of FY24, with margins also set to fall.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Credit demand is strong. The economic backdrop is highly conducive to growth. Asset quality is improving, buoyed by a confluence of supportive structural and cyclical factors," the rating agency said."All that India's banks are missing is a boom in deposits."If credit and deposit growth rates remain steady, a period of deposit competition would loom and further squeeze bank margins, it said.
 
The news published on the date February 15, 2024 12:57 PM IST with headline  Pharma, solar PLIs under rethink as dependence on Chinese imports continue: Govt official is: 
 China has reduced prices on chemicals which are the inputs for APIs. Production-linked incentive (PLI) schemes are seen as game changers, and in many cases they have lived up to the billing. However, the pharmaceuticals and solar energy segments, in particular, are facing hurdles that threaten to dampen the effectiveness of these programmes. Despite the PLI schemes' intent to stimulate domestic production and reduce dependency on imports, these two industries especially are grappling with an influx of low-cost Chinese inputs as the entire value chain is not within the ambit of the schemes, a senior government official said.“The PLI is a chink in the armour, as it does not cover the entire supply chain, which has raised questions. PLI on pharma, solar PV (photovoltaic) modules are under scrutiny,” the official told Moneycontrol.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThough some of the PLI schemes like on mobile phones and drones are doing well, the government’s intent is that mobile manufacturers like Apple, for instance, develop a cost-effective ecosystem in India so that they do not shift base even after the scheme comes to an end, he added.Pharma PLI Under the pharma PLI scheme, incentives are given to the industry for manufacturing key starting materials, drug intermediates and active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) locally. “But China has reduced prices on chemicals which are the inputs for APIs. Other manufacturers (those not part of the PLI scheme) are able to match the API cost because they are importing chemicals from China,” he said.
 
The news published on the date February 15, 2024 12:51 PM IST with headline  CEA Nageswaran says adaptation best insurance against climate change is: 
 The government’s top economist also said that the outcome of global warming is a net of both the negative and positive risks. Chief Economic Adviser V Anantha Nageswaran has called for equal emphasis on adapting to climate change and reducing carbon emissions, saying that adaptation "is the best form of insurance" against rising temperatures and extreme weather events.Speaking on February 15 at a workshop on climate finance, jointly organised by the finance ministry's department of economic affairs and the Asian Development Bank, Nageswaran said it is crucial that the insurance industry encourages adaptation among countries and the private sector when it comes to protecting against climate change.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: The 1.5-degree breach is a serious warning on the climate front"Adaptation is the best form of insurance. And for that to occur, policy frameworks must put as much attention on adaptation and resilience as just only emissions…. Adaptation at all levels – individual, institutional, sovereign – is the best possible insurance," the government's top economist said.According to Swiss Re, one of the world's largest reinsurers, global economic losses from natural disasters in 2022 amounted to $275 billion, with $125 billion of that being insured.
 
The news published on the date February 15, 2024 11:38 AM IST with headline  IRCON International Q3: Strong execution capabilities visible is: 
 Strong execution by Ircon PRO Only Highlights - Quarterly performance largely backed by improved realisations - Medium-term triggers China plus and protectionist measures for tyre industry - Valuations not inexpensive; but improved medium-term outlook HighlightsLikely to surpass revenue guidance of 15 percent for FY24Healthy order book of Rs 29,436 Crore54 percent of order backlog won through the bidding routeModerate order inflow for the third quarterStock more than doubled in last six monthsTrading at 20x on FY25 earningsl (CMP: Rs 223; Market Cap: Rs 20,935 crore; Rating: Equal-weight), a Navratna public sector enterprise and a prominent player in railway engineering, demonstrated robust revenue growth and improved margins. Despite subdued orde
 
The news published on the date February 15, 2024 10:02 AM IST with headline  Defence sector’s techno-nationalism to yield gains for private sector is: 
 - HighlightsIn her interim Budget 2024, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman allocated Rs 6.2 lakh crore for the Ministry of DefenceA recent ICRA report indicated that around Rs 60,000 crore of defence manufacturing contracts could be expected for the private sector in 2024-25The focus is techno-economic, to build a military industrial base with deep linkages into civilian industryThe global and indeed neighbourhood security environment calls for a new tech-driven muscularity and force projection across Asia, especially the Indian Ocea
 
The news published on the date February 14, 2024 05:59 PM IST with headline  MC Pro Quick Take | Auto product mix aids M&M’s Q3 performance beat is: 
 Mahindra & Mahindra's performance beat at the standalone entity. Lately, Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd’s (M&M) efforts to improve its auto segment offering, both by way of new launches and a favourable product mix that revs up profitability is bearing sound results. Its Q3FY2024 standalone net profit, even after adjusting for the 80 percent jump in other income, was higher by 11 percent year-on-year at Rs2,454 crore.In the increase across most vehicle categories. Apart from clocking a ne
 
The news published on the date February 14, 2024 04:43 PM IST with headline  CAIT seeks 1 year delay in implementation of new MSME payment rule is: 
 MSMEs face mounting challenges due to delayed payments from both public and private entities. The new rule of timely payment to MSMEs within 45 days should be postponed by a year or suspended till sufficient clarity is brought to the companies, Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) said in its representation to the Finance Ministry.“The new provision in the Income Tax Act aims to enhance financial liquidity for micro and small enterprises (MSMEs). However, there is a need for greater awareness among traders about this beneficial provision and propose a one-year postponement of its implementation. This delay, would allow traders ample time to understand and comply with the law smoothly,” CAIT Secretary General Praveen Khandelwal said in a statement.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdCAIT has sought postponement of the implementation of this law from April 1, 2024 to April 1, 2025, to provide traders with a one-year deferral period. The trade body met Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on February 14 to put forward its concern, it said.According to the Income Tax Law 43B (h) in the Finance Act 2023, in order to ensure timely payments and maintain uninterrupted cash flow, the companies need to make payments to the MSME sector within 45 days. If the companies fail to do so, the amount will be added to their profits on which income tax will have to be paid.Given the lack of clarity surrounding the applicability of the law to traders and other related provisions, CAIT called for the suspension of its implementation until sufficient clarification and information dissemination are achieved nationwide.
 
The news published on the date February 14, 2024 04:37 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | A red flag for the market -- fund manager bullishness at 2-year high is: 
 The main reason behind this bullish sentiment is diminishing concern about a recession. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOne of the most anticipated reports in the market is the Bank of America (BofA) Fund Manager Survey. The latest report holds a few surprises. Despite concerns about recession, high inflation, and the market trading at record levels, fund managers are the most bullish they've been in two years, according to the survey.While this positivity is notable, it comes after a significant market rally over the past three months, during which fund managers have deployed excess cash, reducing cash levels from 4.8 percent to 4.2 percent.The main reason behind this bullish sentiment is diminishing concern about a recession. Nearly two-thirds of fund managers anticipate a 'soft landing,' with only one-tenth expecting a 'hard landing'.
 
The news published on the date February 14, 2024 02:52 PM IST with headline  FPIs' investment value rises 13% to $738 billion in December quarter is: 
 FPIs' investment value rises 13% to $738 billion in December quarter The value of FPIs (Foreign Portfolio Investors) holding in Indian equities reached USD 738 billion in the three months ended December 2023, marking a surge of 13 per cent from the preceding quarter, driven by the strong performance of the domestic stock market, according to a report by Morningstar.The value of FPIs investment was at USD 651 billion in the September quarter of the current fiscal.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn a year-on-year basis, the value of such investments rose 26 per cent from USD 584 billion in December 2022."This could be attributed to the good performance of the domestic equity markets as well as strong net inflows from FPIs," the report noted.However, FPIs' contribution to Indian equity market capitalisation fell marginally during the quarter under review to 16.83 per cent from 16.95 per cent in the previous quarter.
 
The news published on the date February 14, 2024 01:43 PM IST with headline  Climate Crisis: A four-point primer for India’s young entrepreneurs scouting for green opportunities is: 
 The journey towards sustainability is marked by frugal engineering and localised solutions. There is a climatic problem affecting the world. The past 12 months have been the hottest ever, and there will be consequences both environmentally and economically if we don't make a course correction. But every crisis, despite its difficulties, presents opportunities for growth and innovation.For this reason, I brought together Sunita Narain, Mirik Gogri, Navroz Dubash, and Bhumi Pednekar, four climate experts, to discuss where and how today's entrepreneurs can collaborate to address climate change. We hope that today's twenty-something business owners will read this, use their imaginations, and develop long-term, viable solutions for the future.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad1. Decentralised Energy’s Rural PotentialOne of the most promising opportunities for development lies in decentralised energy solutions that improve rural productivity and agriculture, which is the backbone of rural economies. Navroz rightly pointed out that some companies have demonstrated the immense potential of renewable energy in rural settings by providing solar-powered cold storage for medicines and vaccines, improving agricultural processing, and enhancing overall productivity. These initiatives emphasise the importance of not only technological innovation but also the establishment of institutional and social structures necessary for sustainable development.2. Energy Transition
 
The news published on the date February 14, 2024 01:28 PM IST with headline  Everyone calm down about CPI is: 
 CPI inflation Robert Armstrong and Ethan WuMarkets took yesterday’s hotter-than-expected CPI inflation report hard. The two-year Treasury yield rose 17 basis points. That sent the S&P 500 down 1 per cent, and the small-cap Russell 2000 down 4 per cent. Futures markets now price in fewer than four 25bp interest rate cuts in 2024, down from five a week ago.This looks like an overreaction to us, but look at it from the bond market’s point of view. The Federa
 
The news published on the date February 14, 2024 12:36 PM IST with headline  The wait for private capex is going to get longer is: 
 Almost the entire capex sanctioned during 2022-23 were to roads and power sectors. The magic potion for growth seems to be capex spending with the buzzwords being digital (DPI) and physical infrastructure. It began with the National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) in 2020 with a Rs 111 trillion outlay covering nearly 7,000 projects spread over energy, roads, railways, social and urban infrastructure sectors.The Centre and States were expected to foot a major part of the bill (50 percent of the outlay) while banks, infrastructure NBFCs, bond markets and foreign aid were expected to fill in with the rest. Budgetary allocations since 2020 for capex spending have thus gone up more than twofold, from Rs 6.6 trillion in 2020-21 to Rs 14.9 trillion in the last Budget. Almost a third of this went to Roads & Highways and Railways.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFor sure, capex spending by Government has an almost immediate impact on economic growth, with GVA going up from the related sectors (construction, steel, cement, etc.) But the real intent is to get private sector investment going in manufacturing and industry, which is expected to really drive growth in terms of output, jobs and income.Lagging Private InvestmentBut private investment has been lagging for many reasons, some well-known- slowing personal consumption demand and excess capacities existing. But a more important reason perhaps is the fact that many of the services which now contribute increasingly to total consumption, such as financial services, online e-commerce, and numerous tech startups are not very capital intensive.
 
The news published on the date February 14, 2024 09:55 AM IST with headline  The North-East finally closes its infrastructure ‘gap’ with Assam leading the way is: 
 Assam is the connecting state to the seven sisters in the Northeast. The last decade was exceptional in the history of North-East India. The ‘historic gap’ in infrastructure, became history. The region is now matching the pace of the nation. The construction of the national gas grid is 70 percent complete in the North-East, the same as the country average.Gas pipelines, roads and airports are not the only benchmarks of development. The region is witnessing record investments in the social sector, particularly in the areas of higher and professional education and healthcare. Start-up activities which were at the nascent stage before covid, have gained momentum.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAnd, if the Tata Group's plan to set up a Rs 40,000 crore semiconductor facility in Assam comes true, the investment climate in the region will undergo dramatic change over the next decade. To be set up at a closed paper mill premises near Guwahati, the proposal is awaiting final clearances from Delhi for the production-linked incentive (PLI).Assam’s Paradigm ShiftUntil 15 years ago, industrial activities in the region were state-dominated. Private activities were mostly limited to tea plantations. Tourist activities were restricted to Meghalaya and Kaziranga (Assam).
 
The news published on the date February 14, 2024 08:52 AM IST with headline  Bloomberg advisory panel backs entry of Indian bonds in EM Index is: 
 In September 2023, JPMorgan announced the inclusion of Indian government bonds in its Government Bond Index-Emerging Markets (GBI-EM) global index suite starting from June 2024 Bloomberg Index Services advisory committee has suggested adding Indian government bonds to the Emerging Market Local Currency Index. A formal announcement is expected soon, according to an Economics Times report.If approved, the inclusion may attract $5 billion from both passive and active investors by September or October, the report added.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMoneycontrol could not independently verify the development.Last month, the index operator announced a consultation for feedback on adding Indian government bonds to the Bloomberg Emerging Market Local Currency Index. They proposed a phased inclusion starting in September and requested suggestions by January 25.The proposal outlines a five-month phased inclusion of Indian government bonds starting September 2024. Each month, 20 percent of the full-market value of bonds in the Fully Accessible Route (FAR) category will be added, completing the process by January 2025. The FAR category comprises bonds accessible to foreign investors without limits or restrictions, it said.
 
The news published on the date February 14, 2024 08:27 AM IST with headline  Making India aatmanirbhar in oilseeds will not be an easy task is: 
 - India has remained dependent on imported edible oil despite plans and efforts for long to reduce this dependence. In the past 10 years, edible oil imports have gone up by 40 per cent in terms of quantity and more than doubled in terms of rupee value.Today India needs to import 60 per cent of the edible oil that is required for consumption. According to industry projections, if current trends in consumption and production continue, by the tur
 
The news published on the date February 14, 2024 11:42 AM IST with headline  MC Pro Inside Edge: Wealth God's IB Housing task, Godfather expands portfolio, PMS firms play ‘Cat (III)’-and-mouse game is: 
 Allotment in the anchor portion of SME public offerings is the most sought after thing among portfolio management service (PMS) providers right now We are familyThe Rs 3700-crore Indiabulls Housing Finance rights issue got an overwhelming response. That has come as a surprise to many, considering that the stock does not rank among the hot favourites in this bull market. Much was at stake for the management, as it is trying to fix the balance sheet. So, merchant bankers to the issue are reported to have been compensated a lot higher than what is usually the going rate for right
 
The news published on the date February 14, 2024 07:22 AM IST with headline  Indian basmati rice processor KRBL's Q3 profit drops on weak export demand is: 
 Indian basmati rice processor KRBL's Q3 profit drops on weak export demand KRBL reported a nearly 35% drop in third-quarter profit on Tuesday, hit by a weak demand for its India Gate basmati rice brand in international markets, leading to a 6.4% decline in its shares.Consolidated net profit was 1.34 billion rupees ($16.1 million) for the quarter ended Dec. 31, compared with 2.05 billion rupees a year earlier. The company marked its second consecutive quarterly profit decline, following five quarters of growth.Story continues below AdvertisementExport revenue slumped 47%, the company said in an exchange filing. Total revenue from operations fell 6.4% to 14.37 billion rupees.KBRL earns more than two-thirds of its revenue from the Middle East, the world's largest consumer of basmati rice.Revenue from the agricultural segment, which includes India Gate basmati rice brand, non-basmati rice, seed and bran, declined about 7%. The segment contributed more than 90% of its total revenue.Earlier this month, LT Foods, which owns rival Daawat brand, posted a nearly 37% jump in quarterly profit
 
The news published on the date February 13, 2024 10:57 PM IST with headline  Shunning stocks and hoarding cash is harming European wealth is: 
 Retail participation in capital markets in Europe is shockingly low. Drinks without ice, the best way to make tea and the appropriate amount of vacation are subjects Europeans and Americans can debate. But when it comes to keeping cash in the bank versus investing it in the stock market, there’s no doubt who’s in the wrong: The savings habits of Europeans increase inequality, keep them poorer than they otherwise would be and starve domestic companies of equity capital.No wonder more companies are angling to list in the US in the hope of a better valuation: over there, the Magnificent Seven and the S&P 500’s record high are acceptable topics of polite conversation, whereas many Europeans equate investing with gambling.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe erosion of purchasing power via inflation and Europe’s aging population — which will make public pensions harder to fund — underscore the urgency of transforming cash hoarders into investors.First, the good news. Thanks to online brokerages, low-cost exchange-traded funds and social media, it’s never been easier to invest in equities or bonds and find financial advice. Europeans also put aside a far higher proportion of their disposable income than Americans.The problem is what we do with that money: In countries like the UK, there’s a pronounced bias to getting on the housing ladder, sometimes to the detriment of acquiring other assets. And in places such as Germany, skepticism about the stock market and risk aversion are deeply engrained.
 
The news published on the date February 13, 2024 04:31 PM IST with headline  Explained: As Modi visits UAE, a look at the Indian diaspora, remittances, Emirati job market & other details is: 
 According to the Indian Embassy in the UAE, an estimated 3.5 million Indians resided in the country as of 2021 (Reuters file image) Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to the United Arab Emirates (UAE), his seventh since 2015, highlights the blossoming Indian-Emirati ties. A key cornerstone of the relationship has been the Indian diaspora, which is a significant contributor to the UAE's economy.The Indians settled in the Emirates are also major contributors to foreign remittances received by New Delhi, besides increasing the country's soft power.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPM Modi to begin 2-day UAE visit today: Check key details and full schedule hereAccording to the Indian Embassy in the UAE, an estimated 3.5 million Indians resided in the country as of 2021. Here's a look at what drives their stay in the Middle Eastern economy, the remittances they send, the Emirati job market and other details.Record-high remittances inflow
 
The news published on the date February 13, 2024 03:20 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Investors’ discerning lens on earnings is: 
 Investors are keeping a close watch on the earnings season. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdDivergent reactions to the results of Coal India and Hindalco’s subsidiary Novelis reflect an appreciable focus of investors on earnings.Despite doomsday predictions of an end to fossil fuels, Coal India continues to do well. Coal off-take by its customers increased at a faster pace in the 10 months to January 2024 compared to FY23.And the company is doing a decent job in controlling costs, which has helped it report superior earnings vis-à-vis Street estimates. The stock is up 5 percent in Tuesday trade. You can read our research team’s analysis of the Coal India’s Q3 results here.
 
The news published on the date February 13, 2024 01:48 PM IST with headline  The FinFluencer menace is not just a social media phenomenon is: 
 SEBI is now compelled to demonstrate its commitment to curbing the proliferation of so-called financial "experts" and FinFluencers by imposing penalties. SEBI, the markets regulator, last week initiated enforcement action against several TV guests masquerading as financial experts. They used the platform to disseminate misleading advice for personal gain. These individuals were found to have profited from executing trades contrary to their on-air recommendations.Consequently, SEBI has imposed bans on their activities, mandated the return of ill-gotten gains, and barred some from participating in market activities until further notice. This decisive action underscores SEBI's commitment to safeguarding investor interests and underlines the urgency to address such egregious misconduct in the financial media landscape.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSEBI's recent actions are commendable as they signal a robust stance against individuals exploiting innocent investors for personal gain. Taking undue advantage of others and profiting from misleading advice is tantamount to financial crime, and SEBI's intervention is a crucial step in curbing such unethical behaviour.While some may argue that investors should exercise caution and scepticism when seeking financial advice, the pervasive influence of media – whether through television, print, digital, or social platforms – cannot be underestimated. Over time, viewers may develop unwarranted trust in self-proclaimed experts, without critically evaluating their credentials or motives. This underscores the importance of regulatory oversight to protect investors from deceptive practices and uphold the integrity of financial markets.Media Platforms Need Stricter Rules
 
The news published on the date February 14, 2024 02:07 PM IST with headline  GST Council may issue clarification on expat salary taxation amid controversy is: 
 The proposal may be placed before the GST Council once the law committee arrives at a consensus on the issue. The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council may issue a circular to address the controversy surrounding the spate of notices sent to Indian arms of foreign companies seeking to tax salaries paid to expatriates by the local unit.The circular may clarify that input tax credit should not be held back for the period 2017-2022, as the practice of sending expatriates to the Indian unit, known as secondment, amounts to exports of services, people familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe proposal may be placed before the GST Council once the law committee arrives at a consensus on the issue, they said. The GST Law Committee, comprising officials from states and the Centre, advises the Council on laws, rules, and procedures.Some of the law committee members are of the view that input tax credit should not be given to MNCs for 2017-22, invoking Section 74, as GST is being recovered late because of acts of suppression by the MNCs. Section 74 of the GST law pertains to the determination of tax evasion and the imposition of penalties in cases where the tax authority finds that a taxpayer has intentionally evaded taxes under GST regulations.“Centre is keen on issuing a circular in this regard to resolve the issue. The circular may clarify that Section 74 should not be invoked mechanically. It will resolve the issue to a great extent as the MNCs will get ITC for 2017-2022 and will only have to pay the additional interest cost. Some of the members of the law committee, however, are not keen to pursue this approach. The issue may be deferred to the next GST Council meeting till the law committee arrives at a consensus,” the person told Moneycontrol.
 
The news published on the date February 13, 2024 12:49 PM IST with headline  Stocks and bonds diverge as investors worry less about inflation is: 
 investors Mary McDougall and Stephanie Stacey in LondonA sell-off in global bond markets combined with a rally in stocks this year shows that investors’ all-consuming obsession with the path of inflation and interest rates may finally be ending, say analysts.Wall Street has led a 3.8 per cent gain for developed market stocks so far this year, boosted by the outsize strength of the US economy, while an index of global bonds has dropped 2.8 per cent as investor
 
The news published on the date February 13, 2024 12:09 PM IST with headline  Jokowi Era In Retrospect: The silver lining of Indonesia’s big economic miss is: 
 Economic nationalism has been less strident in Jokowi’s later years than during his first term.(Source: Bloomberg) By his own standards, Joko Widodo has fallen well short of a major economic goal during his decade leading Indonesia. Growth has been laudable in a neighbourhood where the pace of expansion is undergoing a long-term slowdown, but nowhere close to the outgoing president's lofty ambitions. That's a pity, because part of Jokowi's attraction as a candidate in 2014 was his image as a self-made businessman, an outsider who could nudge the country toward achieving its much-promoted potential.This is a failure that comes with some important caveats. Business notched some important wins under the stewardship of Jokowi, whose successor will be elected Wednesday. Landmark legislation reduced red tape in some key areas and lowered barriers to hiring and firing. A tax amnesty unearthed more than $300 billion in hidden assets. Infrastructure, long a demerit for Indonesia, is slowly improving — or getting less bad. (Everyone still nurses their favourite horror stories of Jakarta traffic.) The rupiah has held up relatively well against the strong dollar.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe president's economic goals were more aspiration than plausibility. He pledged to boost gains in gross domestic product to 7 percent annually, a promise he reiterated before re-election in 2019. Instead, growth has been stuck at around 5 percent for most of his presidency. Like just about everyone, Indonesia suffered a nasty recession during the peak of the pandemic. The recovery has been solid, and the archipelago regained its status as an upper middle-income country last year.Jokowi wants the chief executives who follow him to reach for high-income status and sees no reason why Indonesia shouldn't someday become a member of the elite Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Who doesn't want prosperity for their citizens? It’s helpful for emerging markets to have big targets that are easily understood and hard to manipulate. But there's a fine line between aiming high and pie-in-the-sky.Jokowi has been aided greatly by Finance Minister Sri Mulyani Indrawati. A former World Bank managing director, she tells a compelling story of why Indonesia is the right place to invest at the right time. She speaks the language of international capital. I recall my first meeting with her in Washington, when I was responsible for Bloomberg's economic news. This was no colourless technocrat reciting a dry list of templated numbers. She could frame a case for Indonesia that mixed return-on-investment history with penetrating insights from social and political science. I was reminded of Paul Keating, the former Australian prime minister, and Anwar Ibrahim, when the Malaysian premier was finance minister in the 1990s.
 
The news published on the date February 13, 2024 10:32 AM IST with headline  Modi In UAE: Why the India-UAE partnership is truly a ‘rab ne bana di jodi’ is: 
 PM Narendra Modi (left) and UAE President Mohamed bin Zayed. (Source: PTI/File) Beginning today, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is on a two-day official visit to the United Arab Emirates (UAE). This is the Prime Minister's seventh visit to the UAE since 2015. He is slated to hold bilateral meetings with Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the President of the UAE, and Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President, Prime Minister and Defence Minister of UAE. He will also participate in the World Government Summit 2024 in Dubai as Guest of Honour. The highlight will be the inauguration of the much awaited BAPS Mandir, the first Hindu temple in Abu Dhabi.A Booming PartnershipStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe fact that this is Modi's seventh visit to the UAE, since the time he made the groundbreaking fist visit there in 2015, is indicative of the health of bilateral relations, which were elevated to a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership in 2017.These visits have been reciprocated in equal measure by the UAE leadership, with the most recent being that of President Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan to India last month during the Vibrant Gujarat summit. Indeed, the UAE-India partnership is possibly like no other, spanning the entire gamut of relations from labour migration and food corridors to the Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA) that the UAE signed with India, the first country it signed such a deal with. And economics lies at the heart of bilateral partnership.With a bilateral trade of $85 billion in 2022-23, the UAE is India’s third largest trading partner, and the second largest export destination of India. India is the UAE's second largest trading partner.
 
The news published on the date February 13, 2024 09:03 AM IST with headline  Bihar's 'pashu sakhis' show how India's animal husbandry gap can be plugged is: 
 India officially subscribes to the 'One Health’ directive, where the health of livestock is closely linked to the health of the human population Biryani is arguably one of the most popular dishes in India, at least going by the volumes of orders for the dish on food delivery apps like Swiggy and Zomato. The succulent meat-and-rice meal in a pot (there is a vegetarian version but it trails its animal protein cousins by a good margin) was the most ordered dish on both Swiggy and Zomato in 2023. Swiggy managed to serve up a staggering 2.5 orders for biryani ever
 
The news published on the date February 13, 2024 08:08 AM IST with headline  Chart of the Day | The Red Sea crisis is hurting Indian companies is: 
 Shipping Containers The disruption in the global shipping industry due to Houthi rebel attacks in the Red Sea is beginning to impact Corporate India. Companies that export a large part of their produce are seeing shipment delays and a rise in freight costs. Divi’s Laboratories, that sells pharma products, indicated a potential 30 percent rise in freight costs due to the Red Sea situation.The Drewry World Container index which tracks spot container freight rates is up 90 percent fro
 
The news published on the date February 12, 2024 09:25 PM IST with headline  RBI Das: Confident of handling higher inflows from JPMorgan bond index inclusion is: 
 According to Das, the Reserve Bank of India’s track record shows it has managed both inflows and outflows well in the past. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is confident of handling the increased foreign inflows into Indian government debt once they are listed on JPMorgan's bond indices, Governor Shaktikanta Das has said."If you go by our track record, RBI has managed both when there are outflows and when there are inflows. In both the situations, the Reserve Bank has got an excellent track record in managing the flows. And going forward, even this year also, we are confident of handling the higher expected inflows. As and when such a thing materialises, we will be able to deal with it," Das told reporters in New Delhi on February 12, adding that market participants had told the RBI that some inflows had "already come in".Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: RBI's Das say no review of action taken against Paytm Payments BankThe central bank chief was speaking at the conclusion of the meeting of the RBI's central board of directors. As is custom, the post-budget meeting of the RBI's board was also attended by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, who addressed the board members.JPMorgan, in September 2023, said that Indian government bonds will be a part of its Government Bond Index-Emerging Markets (GBI-EM) global index suite from June 2024. This is expected to result in inflows of around $25 billion into Indian sovereign debt over a 10-month period. This increase in demand for Indian government bonds is widely expected to result in a fall in yields, particularly with the interim Budget for 2024-25 showing that the Centre plans to only borrow Rs 14.13 lakh crore from the market next year through the issuance of bonds on a gross basis to finance its fiscal deficit.
 
