The news published on the date May 27, 2024 10:00 AM IST with headline  India economy likely grew at weakest pace in a year in January-March: Poll is: 
 India economy likely grew at weakest pace in a year in January-March: Poll India's economy likely grew at its slowest pace in a year in the January-March quarter due to weak demand, according to a Reuters poll of economists who said the possibility of growth significantly surpassing their forecasts was low.The country's gross domestic product (GDP) unexpectedly grew by 8.4% in October-December compared to a year earlier, thanks to a sharp drop in subsidies which provided an artificial boost to net indirect taxes. But economic activity, as measured by gross value added (GVA), showed a more modest 6.5% expansion.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEconomists in the poll said that situation was unlikely to have been repeated in the last quarter.Growth in Asia's third-largest economy likely slowed to an annual 6.7% in January-March, more in line with the long-term GDP growth rate, according to a Reuters poll of 54 economists. GVA growth was expected to slow to 6.2%.Most economists in the poll said growth likely slowed due to moderation in both the manufacturing and services sectors. They also cited a muted contribution from agriculture.
 
The news published on the date May 27, 2024 08:32 AM IST with headline  The different shades of consumer confidence in India is: 
 RBI's consumer survey shows regions differ in hope HighlightsIndia’s southern and western regions are more confident about current economic conditions, an RBI study showsNorthern regions are more optimistic about future prospects than their southern counterpartsThe divide between northern and southern regions over consumer confidence parameters could be partly due to the influence of inflationSouthern states witnessed higher inflation than the national average during 2017-23 while northern states saw inflation levels nearer to national levelSouthern region households are more worried about prices of essential commodities goin
 
The news published on the date May 27, 2024 08:00 AM IST with headline  GDP growth for Q4FY24 projected at 6.1-6.7%, lower than the plus-8% of previous three quarters is: 
 India's Q4 FY24 GDP likely to have grown at 6.1-6.7%: Economists India's GDP in the fourth quarter of the financial year 2023-24 is anticipated to have grown between 6.1% and 6.7%, a decline from the over 8% growth rate observed in the previous three quarters, PTI reported citing projections by various economists.The government is set to release the GDP figures for the fourth quarter (January-March 2024) and the provisional estimates for the 2023-24 fiscal year on May 31.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndia's GDP grew 8.4 percent in the December quarter, the highest in six quarters. Last time India's economy grew at a faster clip was in the first quarter of 2022-23, when it clocked a growth of 13.1 percent, which was later revised down to 12.8 percent.Economists estimate that the overall growth for the 2023-24 fiscal year will be in the range of 7.6% to 7.8%. However, government's chief economic adviser V Anantha Nageswaran said earlier this month that there is a high possibility of India’s economic growth touching 8 percent in FY24.Do Not Miss | Exit poll, auto sales, India & US GDP among 10 key factors that will keep traders busy next week
 
The news published on the date May 25, 2024 06:30 PM IST with headline  Brazil, Canada, EU urge India to submit timely notifications on sugar subsidies in WTO is: 
 The issue came up for discussion during the meeting of the WTO's agriculture committee on May 23-24 in Geneva A group of WTO member countries, including Brazil, Canada and the European Union, have urged India to submit timely notifications on sugar subsidies in the World Trade Organisation, an official said.The issue came up for discussion during the meeting of the WTO’s agriculture committee on May 23-24 in Geneva. These countries are also major sugar exporters like India and they allege that support measures by India distort global sugar trade.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBrazil, Canada, Costa Rica, Paraguay, New Zealand, the EU, and Guatemala have ”urged India to submit timely notifications on the subsidies”, the Geneva-based official said. India has stated that the Indian central and state governments neither paid for nor procured sugarcane from farmers, as all purchases were made by private sugar mills, hence, this information was not included in its notifications of domestic support.The discussion assumes significance as in 2022, India has appealed against a ruling of the World Trade Organization’s (WTO) trade dispute settlement panel which ruled that the country’s domestic support measures for sugar and sugarcane are inconsistent with global trade norms. The appeal was filed by India in the WTO’s Appellate Body, which is the final authority on such trade disputes and is not functioning.Brazil, Australia, and Guatemala had filed the cases against India on these support measures. In its appeal, India has stated that the WTO’s dispute panel ruling has made certain ”erroneous” findings about domestic schemes to support sugarcane producers and exports and the findings of the panel are completely ”unacceptable” to it. The US and Australia have also presented a joint counter notification regarding India’s sugar subsidies.
 
The news published on the date May 25, 2024 03:44 PM IST with headline  Income tax department notifies cost inflation index for current fiscal is: 
 The Cost Inflation Index (CII) is used by taxpayers to compute gains arising out of sale of capital assets after adjusting inflation The income tax department has notified the Cost Inflation Index for the current fiscal beginning April 2024, for calculating long-term capital gains arising from sale of immovable property, securities and jewellery.The Cost Inflation Index (CII) is used by taxpayers to compute gains arising out of sale of capital assets after adjusting inflation. The CII for financial year 2024-25, relevant to assessment year 2025-26, stood at 363, as per a notification of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT).Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe CII number for last fiscal was 348 and for 2022-23 financial year it was 331. Moore Singhi Executive Director Rajat Mohan said the CII reflects the inflation in the economy, which causes the prices of goods and services to increase over time.For the financial year 2023-24, the CII was set at 348. The index for the following financial year, 2024-25, has been updated to 363, marking an increase of 15 points, which corresponds to an annual inflation rate of approximately 4.3 per cent.”This is consistent with the retail inflation rate of 4.83 per cent recorded in April 2024. Taxpayers usually prefer a higher CII as it allows them to claim larger tax rebates,” Mohan said. AKM Global Partner-Tax Sandeep Sehgal said the index is useful to adjust the capital gains for inflation, so that the taxpayers are taxed on real appreciation of the assets and not the gains due to inflation.
 
The news published on the date May 25, 2024 10:24 AM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Weekender | Markets raise a rousing cheer for RBI is: 
 - Dear Reader,What Jensen Huang, Nvidia’s CEO, did for the US markets this week, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das did for Indian equities, which soared to a new high on the back of the Reserve Bank of India’s massive Rs 2.11 trillion dividend to the government. The Nifty scaled 23K briefly, while the Sensex vaulted past 75000. The Bank Nifty, which was being hobbled by the gathering perception that its best days were behind it, broke free of its fetters and raced up.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe windfall payout to the government improved its fiscal position and raised the probability of lower borrowing — this led to a rally in bonds. Bond markets have been front-running the inclusion of Indian government bonds in JP Morgan’s global index next month and the windfall pushed the yield on the 10-year government bond briefly below 6 percent.The government could use the bonanza to slash its borrowing or give tax concessions in the Union Budget or spend it, most probably on capex given the government’s priorities. All of them will be a boon to the equity markets. My colleague Neha Dave wrote: “Thanks to the fiscal windfall, the government can continue with its capex thrust post the election by increasing allocations to roads, railways, and defence, which in effect will boost earnings and can justify equity valuations.” Aparna Iyer points out that the central bank hasn’t compromised on its balance sheet in order to pay the hefty dividend and that “with government bond yields likely to fall more, yields on corporate bonds too would follow’’-- what amounts to a stealth rate cut.Best of all, the fall in yields comes despite strong growth. The Flash Composite PMI for India for May, a yardstick of private sector activity in the economy, came in at 61.7 compared to April’s final reading of 61.5, indicating strong growth momentum and providing a fundamental underpinning to the stock market’s optimism. A reading of over 50 signifies expansion from the preceding month. What’s more, with positive sentiment at its highest mark in over 11 years, it’s evident that Corporate India has no worries at all about the result of the ongoing general election.
 
The news published on the date May 24, 2024 07:25 PM IST with headline  Business in the Week Ahead (May 27-31, 2024) is: 
 A list of data that could effect the markets. Here's what to keep an eye out for. The Indian benchmark indices witnessed yet another tumultuous week, the markets topsy turvied to end the week on a high. Nifty hit a fresh high in the last two days of the week, boosted by RBI's record dividend payout and Q4 results meeting estimates.VK Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist - Geojit Financial Services expects the bullish trend to continue in the near-term. Talking to moneycontrol.com he said, "What makes this rally healthy is the fact that it i
 
The news published on the date May 24, 2024 06:14 PM IST with headline  Economic momentum likely to continue in Q1 with an export boost: FinMin is: 
 India's manufacturing firms can benefit as part of China Plus One strategy. The economic momentum in the April-June quarter of 2024-25 will continue with a likely boost in the merchandise exports as a result of supply chain resilience, while India’s macroeconomic buffers will help navigate through the risk of volatility in oil prices, the Finance Ministry said on May 24.“The Indian economy closed FY24 strongly with its growth surpassing market expectations, despite strong external headwinds. Early indications suggest a continuation of the economic momentum during the first quarter of FY25. The emerging robust trends in important high frequency indicators of growth like the GST collections, e-way bills, electronic toll collections, sale of vehicles, purchasing managers’ indices and the value and number of digital transactions attest to the growing strength of the economy,” the Finance Ministry said in its monthly economic review for April 2024.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe industrial and service sectors of the Indian economy are performing well, backed by brisk domestic demand and partially by tentative external demand. This can benefit India's manufacturing firms as part of the China Plus One strategy. The EXIM Bank of India has forecasted that merchandise exports will post a double-digit growth in Q1 of FY25, it said.“Domestic manufacturing will likely receive stronger external support in the upcoming months. Modestly improved economic activity and consumer sentiment in Europe and a steady US economy have aided India’s exports in April. There are reports that show that the number of organisations in the US and Europe that are focusing on reindustrialisation has increased. The majority of these organisations are focussing on enhancing supply chain resilience,” the report stated.The unrelenting geopolitical tensions and volatility in global commodity prices, especially of petroleum products, present substantial multi-frontal challenges. Nonetheless, the expectation is that the macro-economic buffers nurtured and strengthened during the post-Covid management of the economy will help the Indian economy navigate these challenges reasonably smoothly, it added.
 
The news published on the date May 24, 2024 04:32 PM IST with headline  The Reading List: May 24, 2024 is: 
 Articles and social media gems from the world of economy, business and finance. In a world strapped for time, we thought you may find it useful to have a selection of articles we read this past week. As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. Occasionally, we may stray from these subjects.These links may be from external websites we frequent o
 
The news published on the date May 24, 2024 04:23 PM IST with headline  Want to withdraw from national pension system (NPS) funds before retirement? Here’s how you can
 
The news published on the date May 24, 2024 02:59 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Mesoeconomics and RBI policy  is: 
 The upshot is that the RBI must carefully understand how its own money will flow into the economy and in which form. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Financial Times’ columnist Gillian Tett has an interesting piece, free for Moneycontrol Pro subscribers, where she introduces the concept of mesoeconomics or the study of networks in economics. This study of networks has gained traction since the 2008 financial crisis and got another boost after supply chains got messed up during the pandemic across the globe. It has become imperative for policymakers to study networks, from supply chains to flow of finance in a departure from the staid macro and micro economics that have a top-down or bottom-up approach.Tett’s piece states, “To put it another way: while economists used to act like medieval doctors, making diagnoses by looking at body parts and deducing how these interact, they now aim to be more like physicians with microscopic cameras who watch how blood circulates in order to assess a patient’s health. Networks matter.”But what does this have to do with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI)?
 
The news published on the date May 24, 2024 01:18 PM IST with headline  Where the value investing strategy still works is: 
 Daniel RasmussenTrailing performance has not exactly been a selling point for value investment strategies in recent memory. As the last 15 years unfolded, a wave of bad performance has seen allocators shift remorselessly away from the strategy of investing primarily at undervalued companies to more growth-orientated approaches.This has hollowed out the value investing community. As far as I can tell, the universe of value managers has shrunk to the aged whose records pre-2009 are strong enough t
 
The news published on the date May 24, 2024 01:28 PM IST with headline  Govt may use bumper RBI dividend for faster fiscal consolidation, lower debt: Economists is: 
 RBI approved transfer of highest ever yearly surplus of Rs 2.11 lakh crore. The government is likely to use the RBI’s bonanza dividend of Rs 2.11 lakh crore to unveil a medium-term roadmap in the upcoming union budget for faster fiscal consolidation, lower debt-to-GDP ratio, and reduced market borrowing, economists and experts told Moneycontrol.The Reserve Bank of India (RBI), on May 22, said that its Central Board of Directors had approved the transfer of the highest-ever yearly surplus of Rs 2.11 lakh crore to the government for the financial year 2023-24, attributing it to higher income from its forex holding. This is against the 1.02 lakh crore budgeted by the government by way of RBI dividend.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBy using the surplus funds strategically, the government can accelerate fiscal consolidation, reduce debt (including interest payments), and build a more resilient and sustainable fiscal position to not only improve fiscal metrics, but also lay the foundation for long-term economic stability and growth, economists added.“This 100 percent more than the budgeted contribution by the RBI will help improve the fiscal situation. I would recommend that all such capital receipts be used for retiring high-cost debt and bring down the debt-to-GDP ratio. It will be the best use of such once off windfall gains,” former NITI Aayog Vice-Chairman Rajiv Kumar told Moneycontrol.The Indian government's debt-GDP ratio stood at 81.6 per cent in 2023-24, according to the central bank.
 
The news published on the date May 24, 2024 12:46 PM IST with headline  Copper barons are blocking clean energy’s switch is: 
 The surging prices on futures markets indicate that investors desperately want the chance to develop the metal the energy transition needs. (Source: Bloomberg) The road to net zero has never been smooth. Especially not when a vital element for decarbonizing the global economy is being hoarded by a group of little-known mining barons.Copper prices on the London Metal Exchange rose to $11,104.50 a metric ton, their highest level on record, on Monday. Traders are betting the world isn’t producing enough of the conductive metal, which will be vital to link all the wind turbines, motors, cables, and electronic devices needed as the world switches to clean energy. Smelters and refiners produced about 27 million tons last year. An additional 12.8 million tons will need to be supplied in 2030 to keep us on a net-zero path, BloombergNEF wrote this week.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIt’s not just futures markets that are moving. The two biggest attempted deals in the global mining sector over the past decade have both been driven by the biggest diggers’ hunger for copper, and the dearth of suitable resources out there. In each case, the suitors have struggled.Take BHP Group Ltd’s $49 billion bid for Anglo American Plc, extended for a week on Wednesday after the target rejected an initial offer. Anglo, built up through founder Ernest Oppenheimer’s control of the global diamond trade in the early 20th century, is a potluck of good and bad businesses these days that many bidders have shied away from. The prize for BHP is a rare opportunity to build its position in copper through shares in two world-beating Chilean copper mines: Collahuasi and Los Bronces.It’s the same story with Glencore Plc’s $27 billion plan last year to buy Teck Resources Ltd. The deal would have given Glencore stakes in two of the best copper pits to create the world’s third-biggest miner of the metal. It was blocked by Norman Keevil, the 86-year-old son of the company’s founder, who still controls the business via a dual-class share structure. Glencore ended up settling for a $6.9 billion purchase of Teck’s steelmaking coal assets instead.
 
The news published on the date May 24, 2024 11:12 AM IST with headline  Forget macro and micro, it’s mesoeconomics that matters is: 
 Economy Gillian TettThis week BMW, Jaguar Land Rover and Volkswagen are in the crosshairs of the US Congress. The reason? A Senate committee report claiming that their supply chains use parts made by forced Uyghur labour — which is embarrassing given that China is about the only issue of bipartisan consensus in Washington right now.No doubt other executives will be scrambling to assess their own supply chain risks. So should investors. But there is a third professional grou
 
The news published on the date May 24, 2024 10:57 AM IST with headline  What does RBI’s bonanza to the government mean for interest rates, equity markets? is: 
 cccc Highlights - Quarterly performance largely backed by improved realisations - Medium-term triggers China plus and protectionist measures for tyre industry - Valuations not inexpensive; but improved medium-term outlook India's 10-year government bond (Gsec) yield fell to a near one-year low after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) approved a record surplus transfer to the government. The yield on the new benchmark (7.10 percent coupon rate) fell 4 basis points to 6.99 percent and the yield on the older benchmark (7.18 percent coupon rate) softened to 7.04 percent on May 22.(image) Bumper transfer from RBIThe RBI announced the highest-ever dividend of Rs 2.11 lakh crore t
 
The news published on the date May 24, 2024 10:33 PM IST with headline  Chhattisgarh Encounter News Highlights: 8 Naxalites gunned down in last 72 hours
 
The news published on the date May 24, 2024 09:38 AM IST with headline  Chart of the Day:  The RBI’s big dividend payout comes from a strong balance sheet is: 
 RBI's dividend bonanza from a strong balance sheet If a country’s strength is visible from the size of its economy, the economy’s strength is reflected through the size of its institutions. Having a central bank with a balance sheet that could take on crises without causing much harm to itself or to the economy at large is important. The Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) balance sheet size now rivals that of many advanced economy central banks. The RBI has demonstrated during the pandemic that i
 
The news published on the date May 24, 2024 09:05 AM IST with headline  UK's July general election: Impact on India FTA, Indo-Pacific tilt is: 
 The Opposition Labour Party, in the lead in most pre-election surveys, has committed itself to "finish the job" but the timelines will remain uncertain for some time. As the campaign for the UK general election gathers momentum after British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak surprised many this week with a snap summer poll on July 4, exactly a month after India's election results on June 4, the prospect of an India-UK free trade agreement (FTA) has been kicked into the long grass.While political analysts and strategic experts have expressed confidence that very little should change on the bilateral relationship front whatever the outcome in either election, the very small window that was open for a deal being clinched by the Sunak-led Tory government has now been swept away in the election wave of both countries.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Opposition Labour Party, in the lead in most pre-election surveys, has committed itself to "finish the job" but the timelines will remain uncertain for some time."Rishi Sunak's shock poll date announcement of July 4 has skewered any prospect of the finalisation of the long-awaited and much-anticipated FTA with India by a Conservative government," said Rahul Roy-Chaudhury, Senior Fellow for South and Central Asian Defence, Strategy and Diplomacy at the London-based think tank International Institute for Strategic Studies (IISS)."The Labour Party, widely expected to form the next government in the UK, has maintained steadfast support for such a deal, subject to an examination of the 'fine print' once it comes into office. The prospect for such a trade deal appears positive, providing an early boost to relations between the two new governments, the Labour and the widely expected third Modi government," he said.
 
The news published on the date May 23, 2024 06:15 PM IST with headline  India needs lower tax on recruitment services to boost jobs, says industry body is: 
 Job seekers attend a job fair organised by the employment department of the Delhi state government in New Delhi India should consider lowering the 18% tax imposed on recruitment agencies for providing outsourced staff to big companies, an industry body said on Thursday, which could help boost employment and wages of contract workers.The Indian Staffing Federation (ISF), a body of 125 recruitment agencies which provided 1.6 million outsourced workers to companies last year, said the new government after the elections ending on June 1 should take steps to support the hiring of more salaried workers.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdUnemployment has emerged as one of the key issues in India’s election campaign, and opposition parties led by the Indian National Congress have criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not taking much-needed steps to address the issue.”We pay 18% goods and services tax (GST), equivalent to flying in an airline or eating at a five-star hotel,” said Lohit Bhatia, president of ISF.”This discourages many employers from hiring contract workers through recruitment agencies as they see the steep tax as an additional burden.”
 
The news published on the date May 23, 2024 05:30 PM IST with headline  Dollarisation or not, Argentina’s future will be expensive is: 
 As long as the dollar is full-fledged competition, stabilising the peso is not easy. The good news is that President Javier Milei seems to be backing away from plans to dollarise the Argentine economy. That is also the bad news.Don’t get me wrong: Dollarisation would be great — if the country had a spare $30 billion to back each peso with dollars. But Argentina doesn’t have that extra money ready at hand, and so the Milei regime is looking for some form of dollarisation that can both work and be worthy of the name.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn a recent speech, Milei seemed to suggest that formal dollarisation — as seen in El Salvador, Panama and Ecuador — isn’t going to happen. His remarks are somewhat confused, so it might be helpful to review different types of dollarisation and what they mean.First is what I call the Zimbabwe path to dollarisation: Just push the rate of inflation into the billions or trillions, and the native currency will be replaced by the US dollar. The mechanics are easy, but the process is tragic. It impoverishes the poor and members of the middle class who have been saving in the national currency, or who have written contracts or debts in it.A second method is to take the domestic currency and try to peg it to the dollar on a one-to-one basis. Argentina tried that in 1991. If Milei managed to establish a one-to-one peg of the Argentine peso against the dollar today, ask yourself: Which asset would you rather hold? The dollar of course, because of its greater security. Not surprisingly, the earlier Argentina dollar peg collapsed in 2002 once uncertainty about its credibility took hold, and high inflation followed once again.
 
The news published on the date May 23, 2024 03:42 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | The force called Nvidia in artificial intelligence is: 
 As Nvidia continues to fuel the AI revolution with its chips, the management fuelled its stock price by raising guidance for the quarters ahead. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdShares of the world leader in artificial intelligence (AI), computing company Nvidia, stumped investors as it zoomed past the $1,000 mark on Wednesday, following its Q1 2025 results (fiscal year begins January 29). The advanced computing chip maker is now the world’s third largest company by market capitalisation (approximately $2.3 trillion), after Microsoft ($3.2 trillion) and Apple ($3 trillion). That too, a meteoric rise from $144 billion in end-2019!To be sure, its stock performance is backed by the company’s eye-popping performance, as its chips form the bedrock of the AI revolution. With 86 per cent of its sales accruing from cloud computing data centres and mega customers in the segment such as Meta, Amazon and Microsoft comprising nearly half its data centre revenue, the results that Nvidia turns out quarter-after-quarter are not surprising. In addition to beating market expectations in its revenue and earnings growth in Q1, the firm announced a stock split in the ratio of 10 shares for every 1 held.As Nvidia continues to fuel the AI revolution with its chips, the management fuelled its stock price by raising guidance for the quarters ahead. Fierce competition between the mega technology companies for building data centres and garnering market share will keep demand for Nvidia chips very strong for the next several quarters, says Aaron Chaze in this article. suggest that the AI market is likely to grow at a CAGR of about 28.5 percent from around $184 billion in 2024 to $826 billion by 2030
 
The news published on the date May 23, 2024 12:02 PM IST with headline  Climate Finance: The pressing need for fair, inclusive, and equitable policies is: 
 green finance Climate finance today faces several challenges that need to be addressed speedily and decisively. First and foremost, it cannot be limited to renewable energy, but should encompass partnerships, programmes, and technologies that address long-standing challenges and advance Sustainability Development Goals.The existing climate finance mechanism, based on the “polluter pays” principle, says that developed countries should provide the larger share of climate finance. Rich countries that became ‘developed’ through decades-long industrialisation can afford to pay for the pollution they have caused. However, the poor and developing countries where climate finance is directed face the unenviable challenge of achieving socioeconomic development with limited resources and a wary eye on emissions. Some countries today impose a carbon tax or ‘ecotax’. However, instead of reducing fossil fuel consumption, it’s merely leading producers to pass the tax burden onto consumers.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFurthermore, countries that can provide climate financing have apprehensions about how the money will be used. Accountability is essential for effective use of climate finance. The onus is on the lender to ensure that the project is economically viable, and the funds are used for the intended purpose. There have been instances of greenwashing in the past, and they underline the need for regulatory oversight.Climate financing today not only falls short of requirements but also puts developing countries at a disadvantage. Despite repeated requests for affordable, grant-based financing, climate finance continues to be largely in the form of loans. This is worrisome because most low-income countries are already facing debt distress and are only falling deeper into it. What we really need is viable, well-planned climate financing and a long-term multilateral debt workout process.Meanwhile, there continues to be gaps between commitments and disbursements of climate finance. The intended recipients are often unable to access or afford climate finance. Sometimes, financing comes at a different time than what was promised. Such issues erode trust in climate finance. Almost all disbursements are directed towards augmenting renewable energy resources, whereas there are many other sectors and SDGs that need climate finance. India, for instance, needs to invest in building robust healthcare infrastructure and in technologies that can re-power the solar and wind installations that are nearing the end of their life.
 
The news published on the date May 23, 2024 11:11 AM IST with headline  ‘Deny, denounce, delay’: the battle over the risk of ultra-processed foods is: 
 According to a report, the subjects who ate the ultra-processed diet consumed around 500 more calories per day, more fat and carbohydrates, less protein — and gained weight. (Representational image) Madeleine Speed, Ella Hollowood and Sarah Neville in London When the Brazilian nutritional scientist Carlos Monteiro coined the term “ultra-processed foods” 15 years ago, he established what he calls a “new paradigm” for assessing the impact of diet on health.Monteiro had noticed that although Brazilian households were spending less on sugar and oil, obesity rates were going up. The paradox could be explained by increased consumption of food that had undergone high levels of processing, such as th
 
The news published on the date May 23, 2024 10:48 AM IST with headline  India May business growth robust as exports rise at record pace, PMI shows is: 
 India May business growth robust as exports rise at record pace, PMI shows Business activity in India expanded robustly in May, helped by the dominant services industry, according to a survey that also showed exports rising at a record pace and the sharpest job addition rate in nearly 18 years.HSBC's flash India Composite purchasing managers' Index, compiled by S&P Global, rose slightly to 61.7 this month from April's final reading of 61.5, marking the 34th month above the 50-level separating growth from contraction.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"The composite PMI ticked up further in May, recording the third strongest reading in close to 14 years, supported by a sharp acceleration in the service sector," noted Pranjul Bhandari, chief India economist at HSBC.The flash services PMI index rose to a four-month high of 61.4 this month from 60.8 in April and a preliminary manufacturing PMI showed strong growth, albeit slightly weaker than last month. It dipped to 58.4 from 58.8.Robust demand was supported by new business in the services industry, which grew at the fastest pace since January, as well as rising manufacturing output and new orders.
 
The news published on the date May 23, 2024 08:58 AM IST with headline  India’s shareholders are using their empowerment to the fullest now is: 
 Today, it is easy to be involved in general meetings of any company by the smallest shareholder from the remotest part of the world HighlightsThe rejection of royalty payment hike in the case of Nestle puts the spotlight on shareholder friendly provisionsIn the past, promoters and management of firms have taken shareholders for a ride many timesOver time, rules and regulations have evolved to empower public shareholders and give them a say in important mattersStray cases of by-passing rules by promoters or management are visible, but mostly regulations are effectiveShareholders are becoming more aware and ready to use their rights a
 
The news published on the date May 23, 2024 08:29 AM IST with headline  For Byju's survival, founder Raveendran must take a backseat is: 
 Byju Raveendran can take heart from the few companies across the world that have pulled back from the edge of extinction, to resurface, battered but stronger HighlightsWith the exit of Rajnish Kumar and Mohandas Pai, edtech firm Byju’s has a depleted boardFounder and current CEO Byju Raveendran can learn from a similar fate that befell Apple’s founder Steve JobsJobs was kicked out of Apple after the company underperformed in the nine years following its founding Raveendran must exit Byju’s, not tighten his grip for the edtech company to reviv
 
The news published on the date May 23, 2024 08:11 AM IST with headline  RBI just fattened the government's purse, but got itself a problem is: 
 RBI's large dividend to government can come back to bite it HighlightsRBI will transfer a record Rs 2.1 trillion as dividend to the governmentHigher than budgeted dividend inflow enables the centre to prune fiscal deficit and market borrowingThe dividend inflow would drive down bond yields, thereby potentially boosting loans and corporate bondsLower bond yields will be good for stock pricesSoftening yields go against the RBI’s current tight monetary policy stance, poses a proble
 
The news published on the date May 22, 2024 06:34 PM IST with headline  ‘Record dividend was declared AFTER…’: Anand Mahindra on attending RBI board meeting is: 
 Mahindra group chairman Anand Mahindra Anand Mahindra, chairman of the Mahindra group, said the decision to declare record dividend by the Reserve Bank of India on May 22 was taken after increasing the contingency risk buffer to 6.5 percent from 6 percent.“It’s important to note that this record amount was declared AFTER increasing the contingency risk buffer to 6.5 percent from 6 percent,” the veteran industrialist said in a post on X.I was very pleased to attend the @RBI board meeting earlier today and join with other directors to approve this record dividend.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIt’s important to note that this record amountwas declared AFTER increasing the ontingency risk buffer to 6.5% from 6%I would like to compliment… https://t.co/ME7VG7P9Vb— anand mahindra (@anandmahindra
 
The news published on the date May 22, 2024 04:26 PM IST with headline  US Federal Reserve’s uniformity on rates comes with risks is: 
 Watching the data: Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell. (Source: Bloomberg/Getty Images North America) Whether traditionally thought of as “hawks” or “doves,” Federal Reserve officials have recently converged to notable uniformity in their policy signaling of high interest rates for longer. This has come at a time when more Wall Street analysts are embracing a wider band of uncertainty for their projections of economic growth and inflation. It is a situation that raises three risks to economic prosperity and financial stability.Shaken by a string of hotter-than-expected readings for all the major inflation measures in the first quarter, Fed officials have become more cautious about their previous expectations for continuously softening price pressures. Chair Jerome Powell summed up this shift last week when he said that his confidence in lower inflation is “not as high” as it was at the start of the year.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWith a more chastened view on inflation — and against the backdrop of a damaging mischaracterization of inflation as “transitory” in 2021 — recent speeches by Fed officials have uniformly noted the importance of giving more time for restrictive monetary policy to work. The officials have pulled back on their expectations of rate cuts, saying that April’s less troubling inflation data was not enough of a confidence boost. Indeed, as Governor Christopher Waller re-iterated on Tuesday, Fed officials are looking for “several more” good inflation prints before reducing rates.Such uniformity doesn’t promise the economy and markets a free ride from here as it comes during a period when confidence in the Fed’s judgment and effectiveness has already been shaken. Indeed, three risks stand out.The first has to do with how highly and, I would argue, excessively reactive the Fed has become in its policy approach or, to use the most popular Fed phrase these days, its “data-dependent” approach. This led the central bank to pivot to more dovish signaling just last December, in turn giving markets the confidence to price in six or seven rate cuts for this year. The string of favorable inflation readings that prompted the pivot then gave way to less comforting data in the first quarter and, with that, the ongoing U-turn, with markets now expecting only one or two cuts.
 
The news published on the date May 22, 2024 04:07 PM IST with headline  Debutant Bansuri Swaraj On Contesting from New Delhi, Her Vision & Plans | CNN News18 Exclusive
 
The news published on the date May 22, 2024 03:00 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | No end to China's real estate problem is: 
 The real estate sector's problems are unsold inventory, unfinished homes, struggling developers, and a severe lack of buyer confidence. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAfter a robust surge on Tuesday driven by developments in China, metal stocks cooled down by Wednesday. China's recent announcement of measures to stabilise its crisis-hit property sector initially spurred hopes of increased demand from the Chinese real estate market. However, a closer examination reveals that the market's optimism may have been premature.Let's delve into the issue at hand.China's real estate sector, which constitutes 30 percent of the nation's GDP, has been in decline since peaking in 2018, with the downturn accelerating from 2021 onwards. Following a spate of defaults, most of the leading Chinese real estate developers are now either bankrupt or entangled in lawsuits.
 
The news published on the date May 22, 2024 02:41 PM IST with headline  India exports over 45,000 tonnes onion after lifting ban is: 
 India exports over 45,000 tonnes onion after lifting ban India has exported more than 45,000 tonnes of onion since the ban on outbound shipments was lifted early this month, a top government official said on Wednesday.These exports provided relief to farmers after curbs were imposed to keep domestic supplies steady ahead of general elections.Story continues below AdvertisementThe world's biggest vegetable exporter banned exports of the bulb last December and then extended it in March, after a rise in prices triggered by sluggish production."Since the ban was lifted, more than 45,000 tonnes of onions have been exported, mostly to the Middle East and Bangladesh," Nidhi Khare, Secretary of the Consumer Affairs Ministry, told PTI.To keep onion prices affordable during the election period, the government on May 4 lifted the ban but imposed a minimum export price (MEP) of USD 550 per tonne.Khare said the forecast of a good monsoon this year will ensure better sowing of kharif (summer) crops, including onion from June onwards.State-owned agencies have started procuring onions from the recent rabi (winter) harvest to build a targeted 5,00,000-tonne buffer stock for the current year, she added.The country's onion production is expected to fall 16 per cent from a year earlier to 25.47 million tonnes in the 2023-24 crop year due to lower output in key growing regions like Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, according to the Agriculture Ministry's first estimates
 
The news published on the date May 22, 2024 01:22 PM IST with headline  With investments pouring in, Chinese imports are destined to go down is: 
 Noting the dependence on Chinese products, India is making special efforts to become self-reliant. It is no secret that India’s dependence on Chinese imports has been increasing and this has led to near deindustralisation of Indian economy. Our industries suffered major losses and many of them had to be closed down. It's significant that imports from China were hardly $4.05 billion in 2003-04; which increased to $51.1 billion by 2013-14, showing a growth of nearly 29 percent annually. With realization of this problem, the new government under Narendra Modi came up with an idea of ‘Make in India’ first and then a full-fledged ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ since May 2020, during COVID-19 pandemic.It is notable that the import of Chinese merchandise, which was doubling every two-and-a-half years, during UPA’s decade, went down to 5.4 percent in first six years of the Modi government, but increased after May 2020, though for other reasons.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSince May 2020, with the Modi government’s launch of Aatmanirbhar Bharat policy, it gave hope that we might be able to reduce our dependence on Chinese imports and bring the manufacturing sector back on track and avoid security, health and economic risks arising from dependence on Chinese products.But, the recent reports about continued and increasing dependence on Chinese imports have raised an alarm not only about the efficacy of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat policy, but also about security and economic risks attached to Chinese imports. The Global Trade Research Initiative’s (GTRI’s) report has recently revealed that China and Hong Kong account for 56 percent of India’s total imports of electronics, telecom and other electrical products. Also, China has become India’s largest trade partner, where total bilateral trade with China has reached $118.4 billion in 2023-24, against $118.3 billion with USA. In this bilateral trade, share of Chinese imports is $101 billion, whereas exports are merely $16-17 billion. Though this figure of imports looks staggering, we see that during NDA regime the rate of growth of Chinese imports has been only 7.0 percent per annum, against growth of 29 percent during UPA regime.The GTRI report says that 15 years ago China accounted for 21 percent of our merchandise imports, and now in 2023-24, China’s share in merchandise imports has increased to 30 percent. Our dependence on China has not been limited to electronics, telecom and electrical, it has spread to eight key industrial sectors which include machinery, chemical and pharmaceuticals, steel and base metals plastic and articles, textile and clothing and automobile sector also.
 
The news published on the date May 22, 2024 11:48 AM IST with headline  China has finally unveiled its property rescue plan. Will it be enough? is: 
 The Chinese government appeared to finally unleash major firepower to tackle slowdown in the country’s real estate market. (Representative image) Thomas Hale in Changsha and Joe Leahy in BeijingWith the announcement of a Rmb300bn ($41bn) fund to support government purchases of unsold housing, the Chinese government last week appeared to finally unleash major firepower to tackle a three-year slowdown in the country’s real estate market.But while the new measures may mark a turning point in a crisis that has weighed heavily on China’s economy, analysts and economists said the hundreds of billions of renminbi was nowhere nea
 
The news published on the date May 22, 2024 10:49 AM IST with headline  Some online finance scam losses are on you is: 
 There are also a lot of scams that really aren’t very sophisticated at all — just new ways to exploit ordinary human failings. (Source: Bloomberg/Getty Images Europe) Payment frauds against consumers and small businesses are a huge problem, but in the UK at least the pace is slowing. Banks are fretting, however, that new rules on mandatory refunds for victims could be about to make fraud costlier. They’re right to be concerned.The latest industry data show that education and prevention efforts by banks, payment companies and regulators are making some progress: Total losses of £1.17 billion ($1.5 billion) in 2023 were down 4% from the year before, according to UK Finance, a trade body. Still, £1 billion is a lot to lose, especially for banks that refund many of the victims. And this could become more costly because Britain’s payments regulator is introducing rules that make full reimbursement of as much as £415,000 per case a lot more likely for all victims.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe industry is worried that the new mandatory refund policy, which replaces a voluntary scheme, could make potential victims less attentive about spotting scams. Worse, with such a high payback almost guaranteed, the policy could even encourage people into conspiracies to defraud their own accounts, sharing the gains with crooked contacts. That might be an extreme risk, — but when the prize is large enough, the temptation increases.The alternative solution offered by UK Finance — setting the cap at £85,000 instead, in line with deposit insurance limits — isn’t necessarily a good answer. It creates the same incentives, but just lowers the protections available for real victims of major fraud. Most people don’t have that much money to lose to payment frauds, but occasionally people end up with temporarily large balances, for instance when selling a house. Deposit insurance allows much higher cover in those cases when banks collapse; similar allowances for losses to scams above an £85,000 cap would also be better.There are two kinds of payment fraud: Unauthorized, where your card or identity details are stolen, for example; and authorized, where you’re conned into handing over money or giving up key details.
 
The news published on the date May 22, 2024 08:37 AM IST with headline  Will the next government pull down tariff barriers further? is: 
 Transition to a lower tariff regime requires careful management to ensure that domestic industries are not adversely affected. (Representative image) HighlightsNITI Aayog CEO and DPIIT secretary favour lower import tariffsIndia’s average import tariffs still quite highLowering duties imperative for better integration with the global economyNo reason to protect local industries that have maturedThe infant industry argument cannot continue foreverIndia’s GVC participation is low and can go up if duties are lowere
 
The news published on the date May 22, 2024 08:40 AM IST with headline  Transition from coal poses difficult questions for India is: 
 The issue of peak coal is interwoven with the issue of scaling alternative sources of energy like renewables and nuclear A study on transiting and compensating workers and communities across the world away from coal, published by Chalmers University of Technology and Central European University (CEU), earlier this month said: “If China and India were to implement compensation measures akin to those already established, the projected compensation sum for both nations would be US$2.4 trillion to achieve the 2 degrees Celsius target and US$3.2 trillion for the 1.5°C target.” It’s a staggering sum and the study point
 
The news published on the date May 21, 2024 09:20 PM IST with headline  US stocks mixed, Treasury yields dip ahead of Fed; crypto climbs is: 
 US stocks mixed, Treasury yields dip ahead of Fed; crypto climbs Wall Street stocks were mixed and U.S. Treasury yields dipped on Tuesday amid the doldrums ahead of a holiday weekend and a lack of market catalysts to fuel conviction one way or the other.Meanwhile, cryptocurrencies climbed amid signs that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) may approve a spot ether exchange-traded fund.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Dow was in the lead, with the S&P 500 nominally higher. Semiconductors held the tech-heavy Nasdaq near flat ahead of chip megacap Nvidia Corp's earnings expected after the bell on Wednesday."We are in a void of major macroeconomic data points," said Bill Northey, senior investment director at U.S. Bank Wealth Management in Billings, Montana. "Nvidia as the third-largest company in the (S&P 500) yet to report, and expectations are very high for the conclusion of first quarter earnings season."Federal Reserve Governor Christopher Waller on Tuesday calmed fears of a rate hike, saying recent economic data indicate the Fed's restrictive policy is working as directed.
 
The news published on the date May 21, 2024 09:16 PM IST with headline  India likely to grow by 7.5% in Q1, says RBI Bulletin is: 
 India likely to grow by 7.5% in Q1, says RBI Bulletin India is likely to grow by 7.5 per cent in the first quarter of the current financial year, driven by rising aggregate demand and non-food spending in the rural economy, according to an article in the RBI's May Bulletin released on Tuesday.The Indian economy has demonstrated marked resilience in the face of geopolitical headwinds impacting the supply chain, said an article on the state of the economy published in the May Bulletin. "According to the economic activity index (EAI), activity rebounded in April, and early estimates suggest that GDP growth for Q1:2024-25 is likely to remain close to 7.5 per cent," it said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe economic activity index (EAI) was constructed by extracting the common trend underlying twenty-seven high-frequency indicators of economic activity, using a Dynamic Factor Model. EAI was scaled to 100 in February 2020 and 0 in April 2020, the worst affected month due to mobility restrictions.Meanwhile, the government will be releasing the quarterly GDP estimates for January-March, 2024 (Q4 2023-24), and provisional estimates of National Income for the year 2023-24 on May 31. The Indian economy grew 8.2 per cent in the June quarter, 8.1 per cent in the September quarter and 8.4 per cent in the December quarter of 2023-24.The article noted that high-frequency indicators point towards sustained momentum in domestic demand conditions in April 2024. Toll collections increased by 8.6 per cent (y-o-y) in April 2024. Automobile sales increased by 25.4 per cent (y-o-y) in April 2024, led by strong growth in the two-wheelers and three-wheelers segment, while passenger vehicles recorded the highest-ever monthly sales.
 
The news published on the date May 21, 2024 05:12 PM IST with headline  Yale Students Wear Red Gloves, Keffiyehs as Part of Pro-Palestine Protest During Graduation Ceremony
 
The news published on the date May 21, 2024 05:01 PM IST with headline  AAP’s Atishi accuses BJP of conspiring to kill CM Arvind Kejriwal
 
The news published on the date May 21, 2024 06:29 PM IST with headline  Oil sheds 2% as Fed interest rate outlook stokes demand fears is: 
 Oil sheds $1 as Fed interest rate outlook stokes demand fears Oil prices dropped by more than $1 on Tuesday, extending losses on the potential for lingering US inflation to keep interest rates higher for longer, depressing consumer and industrial demand.Brent crude futures fell by $1.54, or 1.8 percent, to $82.17 a barrel by 1210 GMT. US West Texas Intermediate crude (WTI) futures for June, which are set to expire on Tuesday, slipped by $1.49 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $78.31.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe more active July contract lost $1.55, or 1.9 percent, to $77.75.Both benchmarks fell by nearly 1 percent on Monday after US Federal Reserve officials said they were awaiting more signs of slowing inflation before considering interest rate cuts."Fears of weaker demand led to selling as the prospect of a Fed rate cut became more distant," said analyst Toshitaka Tazawa at Fujitomi Securities.
 
The news published on the date May 21, 2024 03:15 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Shifting into a higher growth orbit  is: 
 sensex Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdShares of Bharat Electronics (BEL) and Hindustan Aeronautics (HAL) hit new 52-week highs in Tuesday trading after the companies reported robust results for the March 2024 quarter. Notably, annual results show an improvement in revenue growth rates and order inflows.HAL’s FY24 revenues increased by 13 percent, faster than 8 percent annual average growth in the previous five years. Revenues at BEL rose by about 14 percent, higher than average annual growth of 11 percent in FY18-23.Both companies saw record order bookings in FY24. Order inflows at HAL increased by 35 percent. Order bookings at BEL are up by a stellar 73 percent. The new orders expanded order backlog at both the companies and provide good revenue visibility.
 
The news published on the date May 21, 2024 03:01 PM IST with headline  Oil falls as Fed interest rate outlook stokes demand fears is: 
 Oil falls as Fed interest rate outlook stokes demand fears Oil prices extended losses on Tuesday, with investors expecting lingering U.S. inflation to keep interest rates higher for longer, depressing consumer and industrial demand.Brent crude futures fell 64 cents, or 0.7%, to $83.07 a barrel by 0845 GMT. U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude (WTI) slipped by 64 cents, or 0.8%, to $79.16.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBoth benchmarks fell by nearly 1% on Monday after U.S. Federal Reserve officials said they were awaiting more signs of slowing inflation before considering interest rate cuts."Fears of weaker demand led to selling as the prospect of a Fed rate cut became more distant," said analyst Toshitaka Tazawa at Fujitomi Securities.Fed Vice Chair Philip Jefferson said on Monday that it was too early to tell whether the inflation slowdown is long lasting while Vice Chair Michael Barr said restrictive policy needs more time. Atlanta Fed President Raphael Bostic said it will "take a while" for the central bank to be confident that a price growth slowdown is sustainable.
 
The news published on the date May 21, 2024 02:44 PM IST with headline  Slow spending by India government may prompt more cash infusion: Report is: 
 Slow spending by India government may prompt more cash infusion: Report Spending by India's federal government is likely to remain slower for a few more months, which may prompt more steps to infuse cash into the banking system, two sources familiar with the matter said on Tuesday.Over the past three weeks, the government has announced three buybacks of short-term securities along with a change in the planned treasury bill borrowings for the next six weeks.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWe see slow pace of spending till about August, said one of the sources, a government official who declined to be named as he is not authorised to speak to the media."We will take a call on further buybacks after the next auction but we do not want to carry too much cash on our books," the source said.The finance ministry did not immediately respond to Reuters' email for comment.India's ongoing six-week long national election has led to slower government spending, leaving the banking system facing an average liquidity deficit of 1.2 trillion rupees ($14.41 billion) so far in May.The government, meanwhile, has seen strong tax revenue due to a buoyant economy.While the government could choose to cut borrowings, this is last option, said a second source aware of the government's thinking, adding that options such as buybacks may be preferable for now.Story continues below AdvertisementA cut in borrowings can only be decided on when a new government is in place and the final budget for the year is presented, the first source said
 
The news published on the date May 21, 2024 01:32 PM IST with headline  ICRA pegs Q4 GDP growth at 6.7%, FY24 growth at 7.8% is: 
 ICRA pegs Q4 GDP growth at 6.7%, FY24 growth at 7.8% Domestic rating agency ICRA on Tuesday projected India's GDP growth to moderate to a four quarter low of 6.7 per cent in March quarter of 2023-24 fiscal.For the full 2023-24 fiscal, ICRA estimates GDP growth to come in at 7.8 per cent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Indian economy grew 8.2 per cent in the June quarter, 8.1 per cent in the September quarter and 8.4 per cent in the December quarter of 2023-24.ICRA Chief Economist, Head-Research & Outreach Aditi Nayar said the lower volume growth coupled with diminishing gains from commodity prices dampening the profitability of some of the industrial sectors is expected to dampen India's GVA growth in Q4 FY2024.India's GDP expanded 6.1 per cent in the March quarter of 2022-23 fiscal, as per May 31, 2023 estimates. The growth for full fiscal 2022-23 was 7 per cent.
 
The news published on the date May 21, 2024 01:10 PM IST with headline  India's Russian oil imports rise to nine-month high in April is: 
 India's Russian oil imports rise to nine-month high in April India's Russian oil imports rose a nine-month high in April after shipments on non-sanctioned tankers operated by Russia's largest shipping company Sovcomflot resumed, tanker data obtained from shipping and trade sources showed.Refiners in India briefly stopped importing Russian oil in tankers belonging to Sovcomflot after the company's ships, along with its 14 tankers, were designated by Washington in February as being in breach of Western sanctions.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe West has imposed the sanctions against Russia since it invaded Ukraine in 2022 and has enacted price caps on oil and oil products loaded at Russian ports aimed at cutting Moscow's oil revenue that funds the war.India, the world's third-biggest oil importer and consumer, is the top client for Russian seaborne oil.In April, the first month of the fiscal year 2024/25, Indian refiners shipped in nearly 1.8 million barrels per day (bpd) of Russian oil, up about 8.2% over the previous month, expanding Russia's share in India to about 38% from 32% in the previous month, the data showed.
 
The news published on the date May 21, 2024 12:32 PM IST with headline  FinMin may raise FY25 CPSE dividend target in full budget is: 
 FinMin may raise FY25 CPSE dividend target in full budget The finance ministry is likely to raise the CPSE dividend estimates by Rs 5,000 crore to around Rs 53,000 crore for the current fiscal in the full budget to be presented in July.In the interim budget 2024-25, the government had pegged dividend estimates from non-financial central public sector enterprises (CPSEs) at Rs 48,000 crore for the current fiscal.Story continues below Advertisement"The estimates may go up by about Rs 5,000 crore in the final budget to be presented in July," an official told PTI.The interim budget estimates were based on the estimates in December 2023, and January 2024, and the estimates in the full budget will be higher as we have a better picture of the dividend now, the official added.The dividend receipts of the government in a particular fiscal include interim dividends announced by state-owned companies during the fiscal, as well as final dividends for the previous fiscal. So far in the current financial year, the government has obtained Rs 4,837.25 crore as dividends from the CPSEs.This includes Rs 3,443 crore as a special dividend from Telecommunications Consultants India Limited (TCIL), a public sector enterprise under the Ministry of Telecom.The dividend receipts in the 2023-24 fiscal stood at Rs 63,000 crore, up from Rs 59,953 crore in the 2022-23 fiscal
 
The news published on the date May 21, 2024 12:07 PM IST with headline  Private equity is no place for your nest egg is: 
 Staying happy and healthy in retirement. (Source: Bloomberg/Getty Images Europe) Retirement is expensive. If you’re lucky, yours will last a few decades, and you’ll be earning no or very little income. So if you want to have enough money when you retire, you basically have three options: Save more, take more risk with your investments, or work longer.Many people find the first and third options undesirable or impossible. That leaves the second option. And despite what people such as Marc Rowan might lead you to believe, there’s really no way to get a higher return without taking more risk.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRowan, the CEO of Apollo Global Management, wants to allow Americans to invest more of their retirement money in private assets — credit and equity that aren’t sold in public markets. The practice, as he points out, is allowed in Australia, which is so pleased with its success that it plans to double its exposure to private equity in some accounts. The UK is also considering increasing its exposure for its retirement savers. In the US, however, only accredited (read: wealthy) investors have direct access to such assets.As Rowan sees it, people invest for their retirement for the long term. One reason private assets promise a higher return is they are less liquid. If you give your money to a private equity fund, it invests in assets that aren’t publicly traded, so you can’t sell them if you need to. After several years, the fund matures, and you get your money back with some return.In theory at least, you have been compensated for giving up liquidity with a higher return. If you don’t need liquidity — like most retirement savers, Rowan argues — you may as well get that illiquidity premium.
 
The news published on the date May 21, 2024 11:54 AM IST with headline  India Inc must only cheer growth, not question it is: 
 Looking for the real GDP. (Source: Bloomberg/Getty Images) Large parts of corporate India aren’t exactly feeling the economy’s world-beating growth performance. But woe to those who dare to question it.The chief executive officer of the country’s largest decorative-paints maker learned that lesson on a recent earnings call. To an analyst’s question about the relationship between gross domestic product and paint demand, Asian Paints Ltd. CEO Amit Syngle said that the usual correlation of the business with fast GDP growth is out of kilter in the current year.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAnd then he said something borderline controversial, suggesting that he’s looking at ways to find “the real GDP.”That widely publicized remark, doing the rounds on social media in the middle of a bruising, six-week general election, was enough to get the Mumbai-based firm worried. Syngle has referred to GDP often enough in the past, as a guidepost to business. But this time, the opposition Congress Party used his statement to poke a hole in the government’s claim that India is the world’s fifth-largest economy. “The comments were not, in any way, meant to question the sanctity of the GDP numbers as being projected,” Asian Paints said in a clarification last week.How often people decorate their homes, and how much they’re willing to pay for it, is a function of income growth: Paint demand in India tends to outpace GDP expansion by a multiple of 1.5 to 1.75 times. Since the nominal GDP growth rate in the year that ended on March 31 is estimated at about 9 percent, but Syngle’s sales only expanded by 3 percent in value terms, he has every reason to be a little perplexed about the official data. Last year, when the economy had grown by a little more than 14 percent in nominal terms, Asian Paints’ business had jumped by 20 percent.
 
The news published on the date May 21, 2024 11:11 AM IST with headline  This gold rally is made in China is: 
 Chinese gold buyers are breaking with tradition and changing the rules of the game for the rest of the world. China has its own traditions when it comes to gold. Buying gold during the Lunar New Year holiday is one of them. That is why the precious metal has historically traded at a premium to global prices in China near those holidays early in the year, the peak season for retail demand.This year, Chinese gold buyers are breaking with tradition and changing the rules of the game for the rest of the world.Global gold prices hit anothe
 
The news published on the date May 21, 2024 09:29 AM IST with headline  Hold on for a wild but profitable ride in gold and silver is: 
 Smart money has been chasing and mopping up precious metals, collectibles, works of art, ancient wine collections and alternate assets quite aggressively for the past two years Recently, about a cyclical rally that was expected in the precious metals(bullion) space. It is customary for bullion prices to be firm after the US elections. This time however, the parabolic price rise was seen much ahead of the US election. Even though I expected the uptrend in precious metals, the magnitude and rapid pace of price rise took me by surprise.The US Federal Reserve issued guidance about inflation being far more persistent tha
 
The news published on the date May 22, 2024 04:40 PM IST with headline  Chart of the Day: Water levels at reservoirs drop sharply ahead of the crucial monsoon season is: 
 Reservoir water levels The depletion in water levels at major reservoirs gathered pace in May 2024. Water levels at 150 reservoirs tracked by the Central Water Commission declined by about 20 percent for the second consecutive week, ending May 16, 2024. At 45.3 billion cubic metres, the water levels are 25 percent of the live storage capacity of the reservoirs, the lowest in more than a year.“The overall storage position is less than the corresponding period of last year i
 
The news published on the date May 20, 2024 03:23 PM IST with headline  Contractual jobs register 15% CAGR, offshoring services bag largest share: Report is: 
 The roles in the software development discipline, in areas such as backend, full stack/Java, .NET, and frontend will make up 50 percent of the flexible labour market for technology professionals by the end of 2024. Contractual jobs have been growing at a 15 percent compound annual growth rate (CAGR) since January 2022, according to the ‘Contractual Hiring Trends in India’ report by talent solutions provider Careernet.The study found that offshoring services companies continue to employ the largest share of around 55 percent of all contractual employees in the information technology (IT) staffing vertical. Of this, about 30 percent are with global capability centres (GCCs) and the remaining 15 percent with domestic conglomerates and start-ups.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe report suggests that in a volatile business landscape, a lack of long-term visibility has led to increased contractual hiring. With this model, companies optimise costs by reducing permanent roles in their global operational setups. With more GCCs driving demand, the acceptance of contractual jobs is on the rise.Job roles in the software development discipline -- in areas such as backend, full stack/Java, .NET, and frontend -- will make up 50 percent of the flexible labour market for technology professionals by the end of 2024.Further, roles such as Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP), Analytics, Testing and System/NW Administration will make up the remaining 50 percent.
 
The news published on the date May 20, 2024 04:24 PM IST with headline  Crompton Consumer Q4: Right levers in place for future growth is: 
 Strong demand on the back of summer heat Highlights - Quarterly performance largely backed by improved realisations - Medium-term triggers China plus and protectionist measures for tyre industry - Valuations not inexpensive; but improved medium-term outlook HighlightsECD continues to outperformRecord sales of over 2 crore fansWeakness persists in the lighting segmentHighest ever export revenue of Rs 100 crore in FY24Butterfly continues to remain dullTrading at 38 times FY26 estimated earning
 
The news published on the date May 20, 2024 12:27 PM IST with headline  GDP growth likely to be 6.2% in Q4; 7% in FY24: Ind-RA is: 
 GDP growth likely to be 6.2% in Q4; 7% in FY24: Ind-RA India Ratings and Research expects the country's GDP growth rate for the March quarter at 6.2 per cent and around 6.9-7 per cent for the 2023-24 fiscal, its principal economist Sunil Kumar Sinha said.The GDP numbers for the fourth quarter (January-March 2024) and the provisional estimates for the 2023-24 fiscal are scheduled to be released by the government on May 31.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Indian economy grew 8.2 per cent in the June quarter, 8.1 per cent in the September quarter and 8.4 per cent in the December quarter of 2023-24."We are expecting the fourth quarter growth to be 6.2 per cent and the overall GDP growth for FY24 to be around 6.9-7 per cent," Sinha told PTI in an interview.He said the growth rate in the first two quarters benefited from a low base, though the 8.4 per cent growth rate in the third (October-December 2023) quarter was surprising.
 
The news published on the date May 20, 2024 08:57 PM IST with headline  How a ‘Bharat-centric’ model can lead to sustainable, equitable development is: 
 Efforts to inculcate the spirit of ‘Swadeshi and self-reliance’ in the society would give the right impetus to job creation Sanghnomics is a weekly column that tracks down and demystifies the economic world view of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and organisations inspired by its ideology.The Communist China and the Capitalist Western world, both have been suffering from major cyclical fluctuations with their economic models looking increasingly vulnerable. During the last 100 years, these two models have largely been tried by the world and the results are staring at us. We have a less-equitable world. The excessive exploitation of natural resources to fuel the material economic growth started by the West and followed by the rest has led to severe climate change creating a potential threat to the existence of the human race on the earth. These anomalies in the prevalent economic model have been starker in the post-Covid world. It is clear that the world needs to look at more alternative economic models.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndia can provide a solution to the rest of the model through a Bharat-centric model. This is the belief of many leading lights of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) since the 1960s. The RSS volunteers working in the field of economics, trade union, micro finance, rural development, environment protection have been discussing various aspects of this new model and trying to evolve it.RSS stalwart and founder of organisations like Swadeshi Jagaran Manch (SJM), Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) and Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (BKS) Dattopant Thengadi called this model ‘Third Way”. Deendayal Upadhyay, another RSS stalwart who later chalked out the ideological framework for Bharatiya Jana Sangh also talked about a Bharat-centric approach towards economic issues in a series of lectures delivered in 1964 that spelled out the framework of ‘Integral Humanism’. This was adopted, first by BJS and then by its successor Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as its official philosophy.In recent times, the RSS passed a resolution in March 2022 that provides an updated version of this Bharat-centric new economic model. Here are some key aspects of this model:
 
The news published on the date May 20, 2024 08:38 AM IST with headline  Centre may soon get Rs 1-lakh-crore RBI dividend boost: Report is: 
 Last week, the RBI announced a substantial reduction in the government's borrowing through Treasury Bill The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) plans to transfer a larger dividend, potentially around Rs 1 lakh crore, to the government, The Economic Times reported. It would significantly boost the Centre's coffers.Last week, the RBI announced a substantial reduction in the government's borrowing through treasury bills, slashing the amount by Rs 60,000 crore. This decision curtails the funds that the Centre would have raised through these short-term instruments.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read | Additionally, the central bank implemented measures to ensure the success of an upcoming operation, where the government plans to prematurely repay Rs 60,000 crore of previous borrowings.Both actions aim to utilise government funds that are currently dormant due to constraints on spending related to elections. These developments also suggest that the Centre's financial position may soon see considerable improvement, as highlighted in the ET report.The RBI, serving as the government's debt manager, is anticipated to announce the transfer of its surplus funds to the government later in May
 
The news published on the date May 20, 2024 07:57 AM IST with headline  Exports to the EU: The challenges Indian suppliers face is: 
 Integrating tech solutions into daily business activities can provide a much-needed relief from the complex regulatory processes. This ensures compliance at an international trade level In today's interconnected global marketplace, the key to success for businesses is to navigate through the intricate web of international trade. It is important to be able to manage crucial operations, including gathering information for risk evaluation, utilizing Information and Communication Technology (ICT), and managing high-volume shipments — all while adhering to cross-border trade regulations. Thus, for India to be at the forefront of global trade operations, it is necessary for businesses selling globally to be verse
 
The news published on the date May 18, 2024 06:39 PM IST with headline  AI Alliance NCR: Is AI Poised to Disrupt India’s Tech Industry?
 
The news published on the date May 18, 2024 03:12 PM IST with headline  FDI norms in certain sectors likely to be eased under new government: DPIIT Secretary is: 
 Recently FDI norms were eased in the space sector India has recently relaxed foreign direct investment norms in the space sector and there is a possibility of further FDI liberalisation in certain other areas when the new government will come to power, a top official said on Saturday. Secretary in Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) Rajesh Kumar Singh said that in the last few years, India has liberalised FDI policy in many segments.India has one of the most liberal foreign direct investment (FDI) policies in the world and in fact more liberal than many Southeast Asian countries that the country is often compared with, he said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRecently FDI norms were eased in the space sector and ”it is quite possible that under a new government, we can attempt some further liberalisation of any pockets that are left and where some liberalisation is possible ,” Singh said here at CII’s annual business summit. Recently FDI norms were eased in the space sector and ”it is quite possible that under a new government, we can attempt some further liberalisation of any pockets that are left and where some liberalisation is possible ,” Singh said here at CII’s annual business summit.The Lok Sabha elections are underway in the country and the counting is scheduled for June 4. The government has eased FDI norms in the space sector by allowing 100 per cent overseas investment in making components for satellites, as part of efforts to attract overseas players and private companies into the segment. The government has eased FDI norms in the space sector by allowing 100 per cent overseas investment in making components for satellites, as part of efforts to attract overseas players and private companies into the segment.FDI in India declined 13 per cent to USD 32.03 billion in April-December 2023, dragged down by lower infusion in computer hardware and software, telecom, auto, and pharma sectors, according to the government data. Talking about the success of the production linked incentive schemes (PLI), the secretary said so far Rs 1.13 lakh crore of investments have come in and the beneficiary companies have recorded over Rs 9 lakh crore of sales, exports of Rs 3.45 lakh crore and created jobs for over 8 lakh people.
 
The news published on the date May 18, 2024 07:18 AM IST with headline  A heavy monsoon season is great news for these Indian stocks is: 
 The Nifty FMCG Index has risen 1.5 percent so far in May Stocks of Indian firms that earn a large chunk of their revenues from the nation’s hinterland are showing signs of a revival, as traders bet that bountiful monsoon rains will lead to better crop yields and boost rural demand.Motorcycle manufacturers, farm-equipment makers and producers of fast-moving consumer goods have rallied following forecasts of timely and above-normal monsoon rains in 2024, after extreme and unseasonal heat wreaked havoc on Indian agriculture in the last two years. Sales volumes in rural areas are improving and several major consumer goods firms have predicted stronger business ahead.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Nifty FMCG Index has risen 1.5 percent so far in May, beating the benchmark NSE Nifty 50 Index by more than two percentage points. It underperformed in each of the previous six months.“The market is expecting a bounce back in rural demand from a good monsoon,” said Sahil Kapoor, a strategist at DSP Mutual Fund in Mumbai. If predictions of an above-average monsoon this year pan out, it will help agricultural output and support rural income, he said.A recovery in rural stocks is also welcome news for India’s broader stock market whose stellar rally in recent years was disproportionately spurred by investment-heavy firms benefiting from the government’s higher infrastructure spending. Further, bountiful showers can aid the central bank’s efforts to cool inflation by curbing gains in food prices, thereby improving prospects for India’s economic growth and corporate earnings.
 
The news published on the date May 17, 2024 07:42 PM IST with headline  Knowing govt's roadmap, political alignment for next 20 years will help businesses: Sanjiv Bajaj is: 
 Sanjiv Bajaj, Bajaj Finserv chairman and MD Raising capital and putting it to build economies of scale takes time and therefore it’s important for businesses to know what’s the government’s roadmap with respect to political alignments in the next 10-20 years, said Sanjiv Bajaj, chairman and managing director Bajaj Finserv.Bajaj was responding to external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s remarks that businesses in India should consider national security priorities of the government. “Building businesses takes time. If there are significant changes, it can completely disrupt investment cycle and hence growth,” he said at the CII Business Summit 2024 held on May 17.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBajaj also credited the government for improving the ease and cost of doing business, while adding that some sense of policies for the next decade and beyond should be visible to businesses. “What we need now is help, with whatever level of visibility is possible, with what are the kind of business lines we can focus on, where the policies will remain consistent.”Also read: A zero accident policy is a very risky policy for India's growth, says Uday KotakI believe that a collaborative narrative around what does India want to excel in from a business and industry point of view could be very useful, said Bajaj, adding that it would immensely help all the firms to know what to do and more importantly what not to do.
 
The news published on the date May 17, 2024 07:14 PM IST with headline  Gold heads for second weekly gain, silver hits 11-year high is: 
 Gold heads for second weekly gain, silver hits 11-year high Gold prices were on track for a second consecutive weekly gain on Friday due to improved interest rate cut expectations, providing support to silver which broke through the $30 milestone and hit an 11-year high.Spot gold rose 0.9% to $2,396.81 per ounce by 1304 GMT. Bullion prices are up 1.5% so far this week after hitting a one-month high on Thursday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Signs that inflation may be slowing down raise the prospect of interest rate cuts in the coming months, which tend to support gold and silver prices," said Frank Watson, market analyst at Kinesis Money.On the demand side, expectations of continuing strong demand in China got a boost after the country announced more efforts to stabilise its crisis-hit property sector.Demand in China, which contributed to the gold price rally in recent months, is becoming more crucial as the market is waiting to see if high gold prices prompt some central banks to slow down purchases and as outflows from physically backed gold exchange-traded funds continue.
 
The news published on the date May 17, 2024 05:48 PM IST with headline  India's forex reserves jump $2.56 bn to $644.15 bn is: 
 India's forex reserves jump $2.56 bn to $644.15 bn India's forex reserves jumped USD 2.561 billion to USD 644.151 billion for the week ended May 10, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said on Friday. In the previous reporting week, the kitty had increased USD 3.668 billion to USD 641.59 billion after three consecutive weeks of decline.For the week ended April 5, the reserves had hit an all-time high of USD 648.562 billion following multiple weeks of rise. For the week ended May 10, the foreign currency assets, a major component of the reserves, increased by USD 1.488 billion to USD 565.648 billion, the data released on Friday showed.Story continues below AdvertisementExpressed in dollar terms, the foreign currency assets include the effect of appreciation or depreciation of non-US units like the euro, pound and yen held in the foreign exchange reserves. Gold reserves increased USD 1.072 billion to USD 55.952 billion during the week, the RBI said.The Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) were up USD 5 million to USD 18.056 billion, the apex bank said. India's reserve position with the IMF was down USD 4 million to USD 4.495 billion in the reporting week, the apex bank data showed
 
The news published on the date May 17, 2024 05:33 PM IST with headline  Business in the Week Ahead (May 20-24, 2024) is: 
 - There are tell-tale signs that India is on a firm track to grow close to the 7 percent mark this financial year, likely keeping the tag of fastest growing major economy. Even chances are, it could overshoot, depending in large part on how monsoon plays out. Having said that, the road is not yet all clear as bumps remain.We are talking about the dissonance between robust growth estimates and the trends on the ground. Take for instance
 
The news published on the date May 17, 2024 04:13 PM IST with headline  The Reading List: May 17, 2024 is: 
 Articles and social media gems from the world of economy, business and finance, curated by our research and opinion teams. In a world strapped for time, we thought you may find it useful to have a selection of articles we read this past week. As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. Occasionally, we may stray from these subjects.These links may be from external websites we frequent o
 
The news published on the date May 17, 2024 03:59 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Is the banking party finally over? is: 
 Most bank chiefs have indicated a healthy outlook for FY25 too, albeit acknowledging the pressure on margins and the fight for deposits. Dear Reader,India’s listed banks have reported stellar growth in profits quarter after quarter for the past four years. Most bank chiefs have indicated a healthy outlook for FY25 too, albeit acknowledging the pressure on margins and the fight for deposits.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBut shares of banks have been big underperformers when compared to the broad market indices. The Nifty has gained roughly 25 percent over the past one year, but the banking index has crawled about 10 percent. This is despite public sector banks notching historic gains on the back of record improvement in their return ratios. Indeed, the Nifty PSU Bank index has clocked a colossal 79 percent gain.The culprits are private sector banks. Once the apple of investors’ eyes, private sector lenders have become laggards in almost all metrics. Emkay Global’s head of research Seshadri Sen brings out this trend in a report aptly titled “Waiting for Godot: the elusive turnaround”. Sen points out that private sector banks are “ex-growth” and no longer belong in the growth stocks group. These lenders face headwinds in revenues, profits and even book value per share over the next one year.Multiple factors are working against private sector banks but the biggest is regulatory punishments. HDFC Bank was the first to be pulled up for lapses in digital products and credit cards back in December 2020. It took the bank nearly a year to resolve all issues for the removal of business restrictions imposed on it by the banking regulator. It does not help investors that HDFC Bank’s, the largest private sector lender, is an index heavyweight stock in the market and has lost 10 percent of its valuation in the past one year.
 
The news published on the date May 17, 2024 03:35 PM IST with headline  Hong Kong allows China's digital yuan to be used in local shops is: 
 Hong Kong allows China's digital yuan to be used in local shops Hong Kong will allow mainland China's pilot digital currency to be used in shops in the city, the head of its de facto central bank said on Friday, marking a step forward for Beijing's efforts to internationalise the yuan amid rising geopolitical tensions.The programme, backed by Beijing, will allow mainland Chinese and Hong Kong residents to open digital yuan wallets via a mobile app developed by China's central bank and will permit them to make payments in retail shops and some online stores in Hong Kong and in mainland China.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTransactions using e-CNY, predominantly for domestic retail payments in China, hit 1.8 trillion yuan ($249.27 billion) as of end of June 2023, with 120 million digital wallets opened, according to the latest disclosure from China's central bank.Using the wallet, users can make payments at over 10 million merchants in 17 provinces and cities in the mainland.Each wallet used in the city will be subject to a balance limit of 10,000 yuan, with single transactions and daily payments capped at 2,000 yuan and 5,000 yuan, respectively, officials from the Hong Kong Monetary Authority said.
 
The news published on the date May 17, 2024 03:19 PM IST with headline  Dollar set for weekly drop on US slowdown signs is: 
 Dollar set for weekly drop on US slowdown signs The dollar headed for its biggest weekly fall versus the euro in two-and-a-half months on Friday as signs of cooling inflation and a softening U.S. economy raised the prospect of rate cuts.The euro is up 0.8% on the dollar this week, has broken above resistance around $1.0855 and traded as high as $1.0895 in the wake of slowing U.S. inflation.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIt was last at $1.0856.April's annual U.S. inflation numbers met expectations but were lower than the month before, fuelling confidence that the Federal Reserve will cut interest rates in September and again in December – driving rallies in stocks and bonds and pressuring the dollar.U.S. retail sales were also flat in April and softer-than-expected, and manufacturing output unexpectedly fell.
 
The news published on the date May 17, 2024 01:14 PM IST with headline  Thailand’s cannabis U-turn is a cautionary tale is: 
 Research has also shown that taking cannabis off the underground illegal market helps to drive it out of the illicit drug trade. (Source: Bloomberg) Turns out you can have too much of a good thing. Last week, Thailand’s Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin ordered a U-turn on the country’s landmark cannabis policy, saying the plant should be soon classified as a narcotic again and its use limited to medical and health purposes. This decision comes two years after the former premier Prayuth Chan-Ocha’s administration decriminalised the drug in the aftermath of the pandemic. His aim? To bring tourists back to Thailand, tap into the multibillion-dollar medical marijuana business, and help struggling farmers grow a cash crop.The prime minister’s announcement shouldn’t come as a surprise — the new government has been weighing its options for a while. The weed experiment hasn’t gone as planned. Rowing it back won’t be easy, but the kingdom should persevere and attempt to regulate this sector — even if the consequences are painful. Ignoring it will affect the nation’s youth and social harmony — ultimately the industry is only benefiting businesses, not poor farmers.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWalking through the Thai capital Bangkok’s narrow alleyways recently, it was impossible to miss the numerous cafes that spilled on to the streets, or the distinct scent of marijuana wafting through the balmy air. These dispensaries sprang up seemingly overnight, after the decision to legalise cannabis was made in 2022. Even then it was controversial — and ever since, competing forces have been trying to reverse the decision.Of course, there can be benefits in decriminalising marijuana — one is less pressure on courts and prisons. There are major overcrowding issues in Thai jails, where 75 percent of inmates are there on drug-related charges. Research has also shown that taking cannabis off the underground illegal market helps to drive it out of the illicit drug trade.Many parts of the US have already been through this evolution. Cities like New York have now adopted a far more liberal approach to decriminalization, but are also struggling with the consequences. It is unlikely that Thailand could learn from its experience. Culturally it is a far more conservative society, and sits in a region with harsh drug laws around possession and consumption.
 
The news published on the date May 17, 2024 01:10 PM IST with headline  Govt to come out with policy for improving low-grade iron ore in 3 months: Steel secretary Sinha is: 
 Govt working on policy for low grade iron ore beneficiation: Steel Secretary The government is working on a policy to encourage upgrading of low-grade iron ore, steel Secretary Nagendra Nath Sinha said on May 17. The move aims to maximise the use of ore with less iron content in steel production.The ministry of steel was working with the mines and environment ministry to draw up the policy, Sinha said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"The policy will be come into force in the next three months," Sinha told Moneycontrol on the sidelines of a national workshop organised by the ministry on "Forging Sustainability in Steel Sector".Beneficiation of lower-grade ore involves various processes to increase the iron content and reduce impurities, making it suitable for industrial use.While lump ore or high-grade iron ore contains 65.53 per cent Fe (iron), fines are inferior and have 64 percent and less Fe content.
 
The news published on the date May 17, 2024 10:37 AM IST with headline  Dow Jones industrial average crosses 40,000 levels for the first time on rate cut hopes
 
The news published on the date May 17, 2024 10:25 AM IST with headline  Berger Paints Q4: why we see limited upside is: 
 Economy and premium category outshine Highlights - Quarterly performance largely backed by improved realisations - Medium-term triggers China plus and protectionist measures for tyre industry - Valuations not inexpensive; but improved medium-term outlook Highlights:Double-digit volume growth of 14 percentLuxury category was slowAdvertisement spend has increasedWill add more than 8,000 color bank machines over FY25Trades at 48 times FY26 earning
 
The news published on the date May 17, 2024 09:45 AM IST with headline  New life breathed into telcos; what has changed? is: 
 This is a good time to build long-term positions in Telecom sector. The last few years have tested the mettle of telecom companies in India. After the industry was massively disrupted by Reliance Jio in 2016, contentious litigation weighed on the fortunes of all early incumbents. So much so that several telcos (telecommunication companies) shut shop, leaving behind a duopoly. Except Airtel, which reaped the benefits as a survivor in the duopoly, other telcos and allied stocks delivered dismal returns for years. The Vodafone Idea stock has correcte
 
The news published on the date May 17, 2024 09:15 AM IST with headline  Heatwave mitigation — How to make heat action plans more happening? is: 
 The dust storm hit Mumbai around 3 pm on Monday. HighlightsWorld Weather Attribution links climate change to increased heatwavesIt claims that extreme temperatures are now 45 times more likelyThe WWA findings are not surprising but should act as a wake-up callThere are heat action plans (HAPs) in place in India to address extreme hot conditionsBut these HAPs are not enough and more needs to be doneA concerted strategy to tackle heatwaves has to be worked out taking cues from the WWA research repor
 
The news published on the date May 17, 2024 08:52 AM IST with headline  High potential talent development should be central to governments, regulators is: 
 High-Potential talent possess knowledge, creativity and vision to revolutionise industries and public governance Highlights:High potential talent (HiPo) is not just backbone of innovation but also a source for tomorrow’s national leadersIn an era of uncertainty, governments must have a clear path to nurture HiPos for an edge globallyHiPos possess knowledge, creativity and vision to revolutionise industries and public governanceNurturing HiPos in government, regulatory entities is needed for ensuring accountability, fostering diversity and adopting social responsibilit
 
The news published on the date May 17, 2024 08:22 AM IST with headline  Chart of the Day: Looser for longer is what investors feel about US fiscal policy is: 
 One clear implication is that US industrial stocks have outperformed relative to staples on the fiscal stimulus argument. Much of the resilience of the US economy and even stickiness of inflation is now attributed to the unprecedented fiscal stimulus given during the pandemic. As such, the US fiscal policy has been loose ever since the 2008 financial crisis struck. That is more than a decade worth of pumping money into the economy. With the country headed for elections later this year, fiscal profligacy is still not as thorny an issue as it should be, althoug
 
The news published on the date May 17, 2024 08:21 AM IST with headline  Top climate investor in India seeks to raise a $1 billion fund is: 
 Top climate investor in India seeks to raise a $1 billion fund Eversource Capital, which closed India’s largest climate impact fund in 2022, is seeking to raise at least $1 billion as it scouts for companies to back in other Asian countries, according to its Chief Executive Officer.“Water, food, agri-value chain and recycling will be the key themes the new fund will invest in,” Dhanpal Jhaveri, Eversource’s CEO said in an interview at his Mumbai office, without sharing a time line for the latest round of fund raising.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe climate-focused asset manager plans to tap new investors as well as the existing backers for its second fund. While India will remain the focus, there are plans to diversify to countries such as Indonesia, the Philippines, Vietnam and Bangladesh, Jhaveri said.Eversource — the joint venture of local private equity firm Everstone Capital and the UK’s Lightsource BP — raised $741 million for its maiden fund in 2022 from investors including, National Investment & Infrastructure Fund and British International Investment.There is a growing cohort of asset managers from Brookfield Asset Management Ltd. to BlackRock Inc. looking for investments that aim to combat climate change. The global scientific community overwhelmingly agrees that climate change poses a threat to the economy and society at large, through loss of labor hours, food chain disruptions and worsening health outcomes.
 
The news published on the date May 17, 2024 07:54 AM IST with headline  India benefiting from more investments coming into the country as less foreign investment going into China: UN expert is: 
 India benefiting from more investments coming into the country as less foreign investment going into China: UN expert India registered "very robust" economic growth performance and has become an alternative investment destination for many western companies as "less and less" foreign investment is going into China, an expert at the UN said as the global body revised upwards the Indian GDP growth for 2024."India is also benefiting from more investments coming into India from other western sources as less and less foreign investment is going into China, western investment is going into China. India has become an alternative investment source or destination for many western companies. I think that is also benefiting India," Chief of the Global Economic Monitoring Branch, Economic Analysis and Policy Division, UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs (UN DESA), Hamid Rashid, told reporters here Thursday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHe was briefing on the mid-year update of the World Economic Situation and Prospects 2024 that has revised upwards India's growth projections for 2024, with the country's economy now forecast to expand by close to seven per cent this year.The World Economic Situation and Prospects as of mid-2024, released Thursday, said, "India's economy is forecast to expand by 6.9 per cent in 2024 and 6.6 per cent in 2025, mainly driven by strong public investment and resilient private consumption.Although subdued external demand will continue to weigh on merchandise export growth, pharmaceuticals and chemicals exports are expected to expand strongly." The 6.9 per cent economic growth projections for India in the mid-year update is an upward revision from the 6.2 per cent GDP forecast made by the UN in January this year.On the Indian economic outlook, Rashid said "I think the drivers are very simple. Indian inflation has come down significantly. And that means that the fiscal position is not as constrained as in other countries and there is both support on the monetary side and the fiscal side in terms of stimulating growth."He noted that in India "already the growth momentum actually was from last year and is continuing and also India's export has been pretty robust". "So I think given all these factors, this improvement is a very reasonable modest upward revision that we have done, given that what we see is happening in the Indian economy right now," he added.He further said the oil price and special import arrangements that India has with Russia is also "helping India tremendously in terms of keeping its import costs down". "So overall, I think we are very comfortable with the numbers that we have for India," he added.Story continues below AdvertisementRashid said that "we saw very robust growth performance in India, also in Brazil, and some other large developing economies" and added that India has done "remarkably well" and "we see quite a bit of improvement in the growth outlook for India - 6.9 per cent this year and 6.6 per cent next year, so that is looking good at this point." Most of the growth, positive outlook within the developing economies is driven by South Asian, East Asian economies, he added.The update said that consumer price inflation in India is projected to decelerate from 5.6 per cent in 2023 to 4.5 per cent in 2024, staying within the central bank's 2 to 6 per cent medium-term target range. Similarly, inflation rates in other South Asian countries declined in 2023 and are expected to decelerate further in 2024, ranging from 2.2 per cent in the Maldives to 33.6 per cent in Iran. Despite some moderation, food prices remained elevated in the first quarter of 2024, especially in Bangladesh and India.The outlook for China registers a small uptick with growth now expected to be 4.8 per cent in 2024, from 4.7 per cent projected in January. China's growth is projected to moderate to 4.8 per cent in 2024, from 5.2 per cent in 2023. Pent-up consumer demand released after the lifting of pandemic-related restrictions has largely dissipated. While enhanced policy support is expected to boost investments in public infrastructure and strategic sectors, the property sector poses a significant downside risk to the Chinese economy, the update said
 
The news published on the date May 17, 2024 07:29 AM IST with headline  Space data fuels India's farming innovation drive is: 
 Space data fuels India's farming innovation drive Lokeswara Reddy, an Indian farmer with two decades of experience, has seen his crops flourish after lean years, thanks to earth-observation satellites.Shifting climate patterns, high input costs, a scarcity of labour and erratic weather began to disrupt his earnings about 10 years ago, said Reddy, 52, currently a contract farmer with global giant Syngenta.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSatellite data, gathered and crunched by Indian startup Cropin and provided to him by Syngenta, now gives him optimal sowing times, weather warnings, and better use of irrigation and pesticides, he said.Reddy said that over the last decade he has increased his net profit to 20,000 rupees ($240) per acre on corn at his farm in the southern Indian state of Andhra Pradesh, up from 5,000 - 10,000 rupees."We are on a surer footing when it comes to agricultural practices; (using satellite data) safeguards us from climate change, pest and disease, problems with irrigation scheduling," he said.
 
The news published on the date May 16, 2024 08:42 PM IST with headline  Shocking Moments When Slovak PM Robert Fico Was Shot | PM No Longer in a Life-Threatening Condition
 
The news published on the date May 16, 2024 05:13 PM IST with headline  India to become $4 trillion economy in FY25: Sanjeev Sanyal is: 
 Sanyal further said that a 7 per cent economic growth rate will be a 'very good' growth rate for India, given various constraints, including the country's weak exports India will be a $4 trillion economy in 2024-25 and surpass Japan by early next fiscal to become the world’s fourth largest economy, Economic Advisory Council to the Prime Minister (EAC-PM) member Sanjeev Sanyal said on Thursday.Sanyal further said that a 7 per cent economic growth rate will be a ’very good’ growth rate for India, given various constraints, including the country’s weak exports. ”So, this financial year, we will become a USD 4 trillion economy,” he said at an event.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRecently, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that India is expected to overtake Japan and Germany to emerge as the world’s third-largest economy by 2027. Currently, in US dollar terms, India is the fifth largest economy with a size of about USD 3.7 trillion in nominal terms.Sanyal said Japan is now just a little ahead of us at USD 4.1 trillion.”So, either very early next year or even you know this year, we will cross Japan to become the world’s fourth largest economy,” Sanyal added.According to him, Germany is a USD 4.6 trillion economy and it is not growing, so makes it a static target.”Maybe in two years, we will go past Germany. So, I think in terms of becoming the world’s third largest economy, we are reasonably now close to the target,” he said.Sanyal argued that the government should not push any fiscal move to accelerate economic growth to 8-9 per cent.”If you get it, great, but anything around 7 per cent compounded over time is a very good growth rate.”We shouldn’t get too excited about 9 per cent,” he said.Sanyal said compounding of growth is the single most important thing as this will generate jobs and taxes.While the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and Fitch Ratings have estimated India’s growth at 7 per cent, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), S&P Global Ratings and Morgan Stanley projected a 6.8 per cent growth rate for FY25.
 
The news published on the date May 16, 2024 04:00 PM IST with headline  The long, slow decline in fund manager fees may be ending is: 
 One corner of the active ETF space represents the best shot traditional fund managers have of preserving their role in the investing landscape. Active exchange-traded funds have seen record inflows in recent years, taking assets under management to $630 billion. That’s a lot of money but small in comparison to the $10 trillion in ETF assets overall or the $24 trillion in public mutual funds registered in the US. Still, one corner of the active ETF space represents the best shot traditional fund managers have of preserving their role in the investing landscape.Active ETFs are mainly new distribution mechanisms for existing strategies. Almost all are linked to active public mutual funds — conversions (the public mutual fund is changed to an ETF), clones (an ETF with the same strategy and portfolio as the public mutual fund) or new share classes for an existing fund. These have little effect on the asset managers, only on the plumbing that connects them to investors. A few active ETFs are strategies launched specifically for this space, but they are not very different from active public mutual fund strategies.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe place to keep your eyes is on a tiny sliver — less than $10 billion AUM — of the active ETF market: the semi-transparent and non-transparent ETFs exempt from daily portfolio disclosures. Opinions on these funds are sharply divided. ETF.com has declared them to be the “holy grail” of the asset management industry, though tepid early interest has led others to dismiss them as out of step with the transparency investors demand today.It seems too early to write off these secretive ETFs with most large fund managers having either issued such products or announced plans to do so, including JPMorgan & Co., Blackrock Inc., Legg Mason Inc., Gabelli Funds, Columbia Threadneedle Investments, Nuveen and American Century Investments. If these take off, they could cause fundamental changes to the asset management industry, giving managers a more prominent role and potentially arresting the Quicktakelong trend toward lower fees.A little history. The modern public mutual fund was created by the 1940 Investment Company Act. All these funds were actively managed until the early 1970s when the US Securities and Exchange Commission approved the first public mutual index fund. ETFs reversed this process, beginning life in 1993 as index funds, with active management only approved in 2008.
 
The news published on the date May 16, 2024 03:50 PM IST with headline  US Economy: Inflation battle is far from over is: 
 The good news on lower rates faced up against the bad news that the economy really is slowing down. There was white smoke over the Bureau of Labor Statistics, sort of, on Wednesday morning. The key measures of consumer price inflation for April confirmed expectations for a slight decline, and alleviated growing anxiety over a possible reacceleration. Risk assets across the world spent the rest of the day exhaling deeply.The numbers could easily have been worse, and after a month in which prices had discounted growing risks of inflation the direction of travel on markets made total sense. Plainly bond yields should come down a little in these circumstances, while equities are reinforced. It is, however, reasonable to question whether these numbers were any kind of a turning point in the battle against inflation.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTo start, this beautiful chart generated by Bloomberg Economic Analysis breaks CPI into four major components; food, fuel, other goods, and other services. Two years ago there were major shocks to the prices of goods, food and energy, all of which have now dissipated. That’s why inflation is much lower now. The problem is that services inflation remains stubbornly high, and accounts for substantially all of headline inflation at this point.Services are people-heavy businesses in which wages are crucial drivers of prices. Unlike with food and fuel, monetary policy can be an effective counter to wage inflation, so this is an incentive for the Federal Reserve to keep rates where they are.Breaking this down further, the following chart shows inflation for owner’s equivalent rent (a highly contentious measure of shelter cost), and for two measures that were rarely cited before this surge in prices began, but which are now at the center of the debate. One is so-called “supercore” inflation, which measures services excluding shelter, and which the Fed regards as important, and CPI excluding food, shelter, energy and used cars. Most people do need to buy all of these things, but the Bureau of Labor Statistics began printing this number in 2021 at a point when inflationary pressure was concentrated in those items. This is what they look like.
 
The news published on the date May 16, 2024 03:14 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Cooling US inflation good news for emerging markets  is: 
 Market Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdGlobal equity indices literally came back to life as Wednesday’s announcement of cooling US inflation brought relief to markets. The sigh of relief was palpable, given that the below-than-expected 0.3 per cent rise in April’s consumer price index (CPI) revives hopes of rate cuts by the Federal Reserve in 2024. Stubborn and elevated inflation over the past six months had until recently stoked concerns of rate hikes, instead of cuts.To be sure, it would be investors’ and policymakers’ hope that this is not a one-off reading, but the beginning of the inflation curve trending lower. Some economists are not convinced yet. Bond yields and equities are showing relief. “There were no big positive surprises that would upend the market’s forecasts for interest rates,” says Financial Times’ Robert Armstrong in this article (free to read for MC Pro subscribers). One key reason stated for continued concern about rate cut expectations is that the improvement was more in the price of goods and not so much in services.In any case, bond yields fell and Wall Street’s benchmark indices rallied strong. Hope and optimism that the US Fed finally has a chance to consider rate cuts sooner than later, saw Asian markets open higher today. European equities too, are likely to toe the line of their peers.
 
The news published on the date May 16, 2024 03:34 PM IST with headline  CEO's comments on growth correlation 'misinterpreted', not meant to question GDP numbers: Asian Paints is: 
 Asian Paints MD & CEO Amit Syngle Photo: LinkedIn Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × Asian Paints clarified that its managing director and chief executive officer Amit Syngle’s comments on the relation between gross domestic product growth and expansion of the paints industry were ‘misinterpreted after his remarks sparked a political controversy.In an exchange filing on May 15, the company emphasized that Syngle’s comment that GDP’s correlation with the paint industry has “gone for a toss in the current year” were not meant to question the validity of GDP numbers but were in response to a specific question during a conference call with investors on May 9.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“In that context, it was mentioned that the correlation of the paint industry growth with the GDP growth is varying, and we are unable to correlate both, unlike in the past,” it added.In the call, Syngle indicated that the correlation between the paint industry's growth and GDP growth had become distorted recently. Historically, the paint industry has grown at 1.5 to 1.75 times the GDP growth rate, the company statement said.“It was, hence, called out that there is a need for examining the GDP data to understand the reasons for this variance,” the company said, referring to the recent social media posts and media articles claiming that Syngle “raised doubts about the gross domestic product of India, at the investor conference”.
 
The news published on the date May 16, 2024 02:04 PM IST with headline  Good, not great, news on inflation is: 
 - CPI inflation: good enough for nowEvery month Unhedged publishes a chart more or less like the one below. For the first time in 2024, we can do so without cringing:Line go down! Good! After three months in which the month-over-month change in core inflation was 0.4 per cent, or an annualised rate well over 4 per cent, April’s figure was 0.3 per cent, or 3.6 per cent annualised. A meaningful improvement.Why, then, did the market not see
 
The news published on the date May 16, 2024 01:59 PM IST with headline  Dow, S&P 500, and Nasdaq touched record closing highs as CPI slows | Hopes of Fed rate cut grow
 
The news published on the date May 16, 2024 01:53 PM IST with headline  Indian steel mills fear surge in Chinese imports after US tariffs is: 
 Indian steel mills fear surge in Chinese imports after US tariffs India's steel industry, already reeling from cheaper imports, is worried about a surge in shipments from China after the United States imposed tariffs on Chinese steel, industry executives and analysts said.U.S. President Joe Biden on Tuesday unveiled steep tariff increases on an array of Chinese imports including steel and aluminium.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"India is already under grave threat of import because all major steel consuming economies are shutting their doors on these steel producing countries," said Alok Sahay, secretary general at Indian Steel Association (ISA)."We are highly vulnerable to surging and predatory import," Sahay said.ISA counts the country's top steelmakers, such as JSW Steel Ltd and Tata Steel Ltd, among its members.
 
The news published on the date May 16, 2024 01:46 PM IST with headline  India-Iran Deal: “US has been appreciative of Chabahar’s relevance” says EAM S Jaishankar
 
The news published on the date May 16, 2024 01:19 PM IST with headline  RBI plans to manage bond index inflows using forex reserves is: 
 India sees FX reserves as main tool to manage bond index inflows India’s vast foreign exchange reserves will be the first line of defense against any market volatility arising from an expected surge in inflows once the country’s bonds are included in global indexes, according to people familiar with the central bank’s thinking.The Reserve Bank of India plans to absorb the inflows and match the outflows using its near-record high $642 billion reserves, the people said, asking not to be identified as the discussions are private. While the direct impact of the bond inclusions isn’t cause for immediate concern for the RBI, the central bank may consider tweaking its liquidity framework in future to include foreign exchange intervention as an official tool if large flows become persistent, the people said. Any tweak will be a departure from current policy where forex intervention is to smoothen volatility.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTo manage the domestic liquidity, the central bank will use its available tools, like a standing deposit facility, and may also consider other measures such as asking the government to issue market stabilization bonds, the people said. Some of the measures are in the early stages of discussion and may not even be implemented, the people said.JPMorgan Chase & Co. will include India in its emerging markets bond index in June, with the company estimating it may draw as much as $25 billion of inflows into the country’s debt market. Bloomberg Index Services Ltd. is expected to add India to its emerging markets index from January. Bloomberg LP is the parent company of Bloomberg Index Services, which administers indexes that compete with indexes from other providers.
 
The news published on the date May 16, 2024 12:43 PM IST with headline  Investors should not tear up their playbooks over geopolitical risks is: 
 Investor Nathan SheetsThe writer is global chief economist at Citigroup.Geopolitical pressures have posed unrelenting challenges for the global economy in recent years. Activity has been restrained by the Russia-Ukraine war, hostilities in the Middle East, and ongoing tensions between the US and China.In tandem, populist political voices are gaining increased prominence in countries around the world. Such developments have, at least at times, disrupted commodities markets, put pressure on supply chains, shifted patterns of trade and capital flow
 
The news published on the date May 16, 2024 10:37 AM IST with headline  Fund flows to EMs, India in particular, can benefit from emerging macro trends is: 
 - HighlightsForeign institutional investors withdrawing close to $2 bn from India in the first couple of weeks of May has caused some concern about the impact on Indian equity marketsAccording to Lazard Asset Management, emerging markets are historically mispriced and severely undervalued relative to developed markets and remains an under-owned asset classGlobal allocation to emerging markets are 5.2% of portfolio weights and a reversion to a 20-year-old average allocation of 8.4% would result in a $912 billion inflo
 
The news published on the date May 16, 2024 10:23 AM IST with headline  Government mulls base year change to FY23 for key economic indices: Report is: 
 economic indices, Index of Industrial Production (IIP), Wholesale Price Index (WPI), National Income, Consumer Price Index (CPI), national accounts The Indian government is contemplating a significant shift in the base year for crucial economic indices to fiscal year (FY) 2023, aiming to better reflect structural shifts within the economy. According to sources familiar with the matter, cited by the Economic Times, this potential change encompasses key metrics such as the Index of Industrial Production (IIP), Wholesale Price Index (WPI), and National Income, which are currently anchored to FY12. Before that, the base year stood at FY05. Meanwhile, the Consumer Price Index (CPI) — the widely tracked price benchmark — is currently based on the year 2012.Deliberations are underway among officials, with a final decision anticipated post-election, as one government source revealed to ET. Additionally, it has been reported that the government will soon establish a committee to propose modifications to the methodology of compiling the national accounts, among other recommendations.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read | Govt aims to adopt new base year for IIP, CPI by 2026-27: OfficialThe choice of the base year serves as a pivotal reference point for assessing fluctuations in economic variables and facilitating comparative analyses of indicators over time. For instance, the calculation of real gross domestic product (GDP) growth currently relies on FY12 price data.Regular updates to the base year are deemed necessary to ensure that indices accurately reflect shifts in the economy's structure, encompassing alterations in consumption patterns, sectoral weights, and the inclusion of emerging sectors.
 
The news published on the date May 16, 2024 09:16 AM IST with headline  RBI tightens screws left loose by lenders in infra projects is: 
 RBI's draft guidelines also probably seek to address the banking sector’s long-standing complaints about an unequal playing field Regulatory action from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is seldom arbitrary and a recent announcement has got everybody scrambling to locate where the bodies are buried.The central bank dropped a bombshell on 3 May by releasing draft guidelines on prudential framework for loans to projects under implementation. These draft guidelines have been designed to reduce risk from project finance by specifying when the banks can start funding a project, how much they should be lending t
 
The news published on the date May 16, 2024 08:10 AM IST with headline  Does India have a chance to gain an edge over China within the EU? is: 
 The key will remain cross-border FDI and the willingness of Indian companies to emerge as attractive investment and JV partners for at least three of the V4 countries—Poland, Czechia and Slovakia, besides Germany’s Mittelstand When the Chinese President Xi Jinping visited France last week, he would have found the French President Emmanuel Macron subtle. Macron hosted Xi alongside the European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, a hardliner against China’s policies. He also gifted Xi bottles of some of France’s cognacs. China had opened an anti-dumping investigation into cognacs in January this year, a move largely seen as a retaliation against the EU’s investigations into China’s EVs and medical devices industry
 
The news published on the date May 16, 2024 08:29 AM IST with headline  MGNREGA must be used as a rural growth enabler, not a mere jobs generator is: 
 A broad-based agenda to improve rural infrastructure can be hugely helpful for rural services HighlightsIn past decade, Rs 8 lakh crore has been spent on MGNREGA schemeThe employment guarantee scheme generated 3 billion person-days of work last yearTamil Nadu leads in share of households that got work under MGNREGA because of high efficiency of state machinerySome states have lagged jobs generation because of being at odds with the central government that holds the purse for the schemeMGNREGA work must be part of an elaborate roadmap to generate employment in order t
 
The news published on the date May 16, 2024 07:28 AM IST with headline  Centre cuts windfall tax on petroleum crude is: 
 Centre cuts windfall tax on petroleum crude Government has cuts windfall tax on crude petroleum to Rs 5700 per tonne from Rs 8400 per tonne with effective from May 16, according to a Gazette notification.The windfall tax on diesel, petrol and ATF will continue to be nil.Story continues below AdvertisementWindfall tax is revised every two weeks, and on May 1 during the last review, tax on petroleum crude was reduced to Rs 8,400 per tonne from Rs 9,600 tonne.The tax was introduced on crude oil producers and on exports of gasoline, diesel and aviation fuel in July 2022 regulate private refiners selling fuel overseas, instead of supplying for local consumption
 
The news published on the date May 15, 2024 09:18 PM IST with headline  Gold climbs as cooling US inflation bolsters Fed rate cut bets is: 
 Spot gold was 0.5% higher at $2,369.49 per ounce by 1449 GMT. U.S. gold futures for June delivery rose 0.6% to $2,374.60 per ounce Gold hit a more than three-week high on Wednesday, aided by a weaker dollar and lower Treasury yields after data showed U.S. consumer prices rose less than expected in April, boosting chances of the Federal Reserve cutting interest rates.Spot gold was 0.5% higher at $2,369.49 per ounce by 1449 GMT. U.S. gold futures for June delivery rose 0.6% to $2,374.60 per ounce.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe consumer price index data "could be an early indication that over time inflation will cool and the Fed will make its first interest rate cut," said Phillip Streible, chief market strategist at Blue Line Futures.U.S. CPI rose 0.3% last month after advancing 0.4% in March and February, suggesting that inflation resumed its downward trend at the start of the second quarter in a boost to financial market expectations for a September interest rate cut.Economists polled by Reuters had forecast the CPI rising 0.4% on the month and advancing 3.4% year-on-year.
 
The news published on the date May 15, 2024 06:15 PM IST with headline  US consumer prices rise less than expected in April; core CPI slows is: 
 US consumer prices rise less than expected in April; core CPI slows U.S. consumer prices increased less than expected in April, suggesting that inflation resumed its downward trend at the start of the second quarter in a boost to financial market expectations for a September interest rate cut.The consumer price index rose 0.3% last month after advancing 0.4% in March and February, the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) said on Wednesday. In the 12 months through April, the CPI increased 3.4% after climbing 3.5% in March. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast the CPI gaining 0.4% on the month and advancing 3.4% year-on-year.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe annual increase in consumer prices has dropped from a peak of 9.1% in June 2022, though progress has stalled.Inflation accelerated in the first quarter amid strong domestic demand after moderating for much of last year.Last month's slowdown was a relief after data on Tuesday showed a jump in producer prices in April.
 
The news published on the date May 15, 2024 04:31 PM IST with headline  Global shares at record high ahead of US inflation data; meme mania heats up is: 
 Global shares at record high ahead of US inflation data; meme mania heats up Global shares rose while the dollar retreated on Wednesday, after a hot reading of U.S. wholesale inflation set a nervous tone for trading ahead of the consumer price report that could prove decisive in when the Federal Reserve cuts interest rates.The frenzy in so-called meme stocks entered a third day, with shares in AMC and GameStop soaring by more than 25% in premarket trading.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe MSCI All-World share index traded at a record high, up 0.15% on the day, which brought gains for 2024 so far to 8.3%.Price action was more subdued as investors were reluctant to push any market too aggressively one way or another ahead of the monthly U.S. consumer price index later in the day.In European trading, the STOXX rose 0.3%, buoyed largely by healthcare shares, while U.S. stock futures were broadly flat on the day, indicating a more muted start on Wall Street, where activity the previous day centred on the meme-stock rally.
 
The news published on the date May 15, 2024 04:05 PM IST with headline  Rupee edges up 1 paisa to 83.50 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee edges up 1 paisa to 83.50 against US dollar The rupee inched up 1 paisa to settle at 83.50 (provisional) against the US dollar on Wednesday as the American currency retreated from its elevated level.However, sustained foreign fund outflows and a weak trend in domestic equities weighed on the local unit.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWith foreign investors buying US dollars and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) selling the greenback, the USD/INR pair is expected to remain range-bound with a bit of a weakness bias, according to forex traders.At the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 83.49. During the session, it traded in a narrow range of 83.51-83.47. The domestic unit finally settled at 83.50 (provisional), higher by 1 paisa from its previous close.The rupee gained on weakness in the US Dollar. However, weak domestic markets and FII selling capped sharp gains, said Anuj Choudhary, Research Analyst at Sharekhan by BNP Paribas.
 
The news published on the date May 15, 2024 03:58 PM IST with headline  Number of Agri startups jumps manifold to over 7,000 in last 9 years: Report is: 
 Number of Agri startups jumps manifold to over 7,000 in last 9 years: Report The number of startups in agriculture and allied sectors has risen to over 7,000 in the last nine years due to a conducive business environment and government support, a report said. Before 2014-15, there were less than 50 startups in agriculture and allied sectors, according to a report titled 'Transformation of India's Agriculture' released by the Federation of All India Farmer Associations (FAIFA) on Wednesday.The Department of Agriculture & Farmers' Welfare (DA&FW) is implementing the 'Innovation and Agri-Entrepreneurship Development' programme under Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY) from 2018-19 to promote innovation and agri-entrepreneurship by providing financial support and nurturing an incubation ecosystem. Five Knowledge Partners (KPs) and 24 RKVY- Agribusiness Incubators (R-ABIs) have been appointed by the Department for incubation of startups and implementation of this programme across the country during 2018-19, which is sufficient to cater to current requirements.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe report commended the government's decade-long efforts, acknowledging a comprehensive approach that has borne fruit. From initiatives supporting farmers' income, agricultural insurance schemes and expanded irrigation coverage to promoting organic farming, empowering women farmers, bolstering infrastructure and digitising services, the government has embraced a holistic strategy in championing the cause of the farmers, it said.During the nine years, there has been a 300 per cent jump in budget allocation for agriculture. It has gone up from Rs 30,000 crore to Rs 1.3 lakh crore. "The strides made by the government in the agriculture sector and for farmers are commendable. Efforts are being tirelessly invested in augmenting farmer income and ensuring their security," aiding our invaluable 'Annadata' in feeding our nation and the world too, FAIFA president Javare Gowda said.Key policy initiatives like the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Maandhan Yojana (PM-KMY), Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) and Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) have played pivotal roles in extending financial and income support to farmers, he said. The comprehensive crop insurance policy serves as a vital shield for farmers, offering protection against unforeseeable natural calamities thereby safeguarding their livelihoods and preventing financial ruin, the report said.
 
The news published on the date May 15, 2024 03:34 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Market participants must heed the Finance Minister's warning  is: 
 Market Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has joined the market regulator SEBI and other experts in warning against a potential surge in the retail futures and options segment. Speaking at the BSE's Viksit Bharat event on Tuesday, Sitharaman said, "Any unchecked explosion in trading of retail futures and options can create future challenges, not just for the markets and investor sentiment, but also for household savings that have made the generational shift."Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe minister's caution is valid—excess in any form is detrimental. India's options market is among the largest globally, accounting for 78–84 percent of all equity option contracts traded worldwide in 2022–23. In 2023, India traded 85 billion options contracts, the highest volume in the world. The National Stock Exchange (NSE) handles over 93 percent of these transactions.However, a closer examination reveals that over 90 percent of the derivative volume is in index-based options, with the highest volume (nearly 95 percent) on the options' expiry day.The higher volume on expiry day is because of the fact that, unlike other instruments where the end-of-day price is uncertain, all out-of-the-money options become worthless in zero-day to expiry (0DTE) options. Both institutional and retail traders are drawn to this predictability. As 0DTE volume increased, larger players entered the market, using their financial power to deploy strategies in a crowded space, causing market spikes.
 
The news published on the date May 15, 2024 03:11 PM IST with headline  Oil prices rise on US inventories drawdown expectations is: 
 Oil prices rise on US inventories drawdown expectations Oil prices rose on Wednesday on expectations for higher demand as the U.S. dollar weakened and a report showed U.S. crude and gasoline inventories fell while the release of inflation data may point to a more supportive economic outlook.Brent crude futures were up 39 cents, or 0.5%, at $82.77 a barrel at 0630 GMT. U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude futures (WTI) rose 42 cents, or 0.5%, to $78.44 a barrel.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdU.S. crude oil inventories fell by 3.104 million barrels in the week ended May 10, according to market sources citing American Petroleum Institute figures on Tuesday.Gasoline inventories fell by 1.269 million barrels and distillates rose by 673,000 barrels.U.S. government inventory data is due later on Wednesday and are likely to also show a drop in crude stockpiles as refineries increase their runs to meet increased fuel demand heading into the peak northern hemisphere summer driving season.
 
The news published on the date May 15, 2024 12:39 PM IST with headline  Investing is not always a logical decision, the mind has its own bias is: 
 There is enough research on Behavioural Finance which proves that emotions such as fear and greed significantly impact decision making. Long-term investing is like an obstacle course race except rather than physical ones, the mind throws several mental obstacles at investors to overcome in order to succeed.Traditionally, finance operates on the premise that investors make logical decisions based on rigorous data and analysis. However, there is enough research on Behavioural Finance which proves that emotions such as fear and greed significantly impact decision making.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdYou are not the same person at all times. As your mood varies (something you are aware of) some features of your cognitive machinery vary with it (something you are not fully aware of).If you are shown a complex judgement problem your mood in the moment may influence your approach to the problem and the conclusions you reach. Even factors like weather conditions whether sunny, rainy or cloudy may impact the way you take decisions.Let us look at some practical examples about how your mind may trick you into falling trap to various psychological biases.
 
The news published on the date May 15, 2024 12:22 PM IST with headline  Private equity’s capitulation is delayed, not cancelled is: 
 Lower debt costs will improve earnings, and a longer lead time gives the private equity industry time to grow companies into their valuations. Private equity employs a lot of clever people. In recent times, they have applied their brainpower to avoid having to sell assets at cut-price valuations. Bloated portfolios and high debt costs have been ratcheting up the pressure on sellers. But a fortuitous opportunity to refinance and extend leveraged loans has given the industry a chance to kick the can further down the road — and hope markets recover in the meantime.The industry’s latest reprieve comes courtesy o
 
The news published on the date May 15, 2024 09:52 AM IST with headline  The emissions challenge to India’s energy exercise is: 
 Representative image HighlightsIndia was the third-largest power sector emitter in 2023, according to Ember Global Electricity ReviewIndia’s power sector emissions rose 7.2 percent because of increased generation from coalHowever, India is among the top three producers of solar energyHydropower has to increase to cut dependence on thermal powerProactive steps needed to enhance RE generatio
 
The news published on the date May 15, 2024 09:17 AM IST with headline  A slowing affordable housing market is finding new money is: 
 Affordable housing wants more bucks to come back HighlightsTwo housing finance firms have found much needed capital for growth this monthMarque investors such as Warburg Pincus have increased exposure to a slowing affordable housing marketInvestors are betting that a turn in interest rate cycle and government push would revive affordable housing marketAnalysts expect affordable housing financiers to grow 30 percent in FY25Affordable housing financiers can get more growth through diversification of their portfoli
 
The news published on the date May 15, 2024 08:18 AM IST with headline  Decoding Economics: Who gains, who loses from building roads? is: 
 If, as the authors say, it is the new plants set up in proximity to the highways that show the greatest promise, it implies a surge in entrepreneurship From the days of the Vajpayee government, building good roads to increase connectivity has been seen as the key to development. Good roads lower logistics costs and open up new markets. They also help the spread of industry into the hinterland. For economists, the Golden Quadrilateral (GQ) Highway project, which upgraded the quality of 3633 miles of Indian roads, has served as a natural experiment that allowed them to study the impact of this major road-building exercise.Fo
 
The news published on the date May 14, 2024 05:29 PM IST with headline  Ant Group profit down 19% to 7.87 billion yuan is: 
 Ant Group profit down 19% to 7.87 billion yuan China's Ant Group posted a 19% fall in net profit of 7.87 billion yuan ($1.09 billion) in the three months to Dec. 31, according to Reuters calculations based on Alibaba Group Holding's earnings released on Tuesday.The e-commerce giant reports profit from Ant one quarter in arrears.Story continues below AdvertisementChinese authorities last July announced a fine of 7.12 billion yuan for Ant Group for violating laws concerning consumer protection and corporate governance, ending a years-long regulatory overhaul of the fintech company.Both groups were co-founded by Chinese billionaire Jack Ma and Alibaba holds a 33% stake in Ant.($1 = 7.2342 Chinese yuan renminbi
 
The news published on the date May 14, 2024 04:40 PM IST with headline  Rupee settles on flat note at 83.51 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee settles on flat note at 83.51 against US dollar The rupee settled on a flat note at 83.51 (provisional) against the US dollar on Tuesday, as the support from positive domestic markets and favourable inflation data was negated by strong US Dollar and foreign fund outflows.Forex traders said the rupee remains under pressure due to ongoing elections as well as foreign fund outflows and the same shall subside once the results are out.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit traded in a narrow range. It opened at 83.51, and touched an intraday low of 83.52 during the day.The domestic unit finally settled for the day at 83.51 (provisional), unchanged from its previous close.On Monday, the rupee consolidated in a narrow range and settled flat at 83.51 against the US dollar.
 
The news published on the date May 14, 2024 04:36 PM IST with headline  Higher for longer? Rates could be higher forever is: 
 Even if rates fall in the short-term, there is a good chance they will settle at a higher level. Our holiday from history has come to an end. I am referring not to world peace but to the zero-interest-rate environment so many people expected would last forever. Despite all the talk about when the US Federal Reserve will cut rates and bring back those holiday vibes, there is a very real possibility that it will not matter when the cuts happen or how many there are.That’s because the interest rates that matter for much of the economy — longer term US Treasury bills — may not just be higher for longer: They may be higher forever. And that would mean a new era not only for investing but also for the economy.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhile the Fed exerts control over short-term Treasuries, the research is mixed on how much influence it has on longer-term bonds. And the 10-year is what matters for how capital is priced and what rates consumers face. Its price tends to be driven by macro factors: the growth and inflation outlook of the economy, global and domestic demand for safe US assets and, usually, the long-term debt of the federal government.But on our holiday from history, the bond market appeared to have entered a new era. No matter the economic environment, yields went down and so prices went up: It was one long bull market. To some extent, this was justified by a low-inflation environment, an insatiable demand for US debt from foreign governments, and various regulations that prized US bonds as the world’s safe asset.But bonds aren’t like stocks. Rates can fall only so low — no one will buy a bond that offers an -8 percent yield. In the 2010s, real rates hovered around 0 percent, in spite of the government piling on debt and a waning appetite for US debt from its more reliable buyers. But that may have been an anomaly. Research on the 10-year yield going back to 1300 shows how it trended down as the world got safer and financial markets deepened. At the same time, the bond market has always had periods of highs and lows, and rates tend toward the mean.
 
The news published on the date May 14, 2024 04:35 PM IST with headline  China's Tencent posts solid revenue growth as ad sales, business services shine is: 
 China's Tencent posts solid revenue growth as ad sales, business services shine China's Tencent Holdings posted a 6% rise in first-quarter revenue on Tuesday, beating analyst expectations, as business services and advertising sales delivered strong revenue growth.However, a recovery in its games business, which generates nearly half of its groupwide profit, remained weak, pointing to challenges it faces as the world's largest video game company seeks to revamp its gaming pipeline. China's biggest internet company and operator of the WeChat messaging platform said revenue reached 159.5 billion yuan ($22.04 billion) for the three months ended March 31. That compared with the 158.44 billion yuan average of 19 analyst estimates compiled by LSEG.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThat marks the fifth straight quarter where Tencent has experienced quarterly revenue growth as it comes out of Beijing's regulatory crackdown in 2022. While the company's business services and advertising revenue continue to grow, its core gaming business is facing a notable slowdown as popularity for its existing hits plateaus and fades.For the first quarter, domestic gaming revenue declined 2% to 34.5 billion yuan. Honor of Kings and Peacekeeper Elite, Tencent's two leading titles, have both suffered notable revenue decline. However, international gaming revenue returned to growth this quarter, up 3% year-over-year to 13.6 billion yuan.Revenue from online ads jumped 26% to 26.5 billion yuan as Tencent upgraded its ad infrastructure and further commercialised its short video platform WeChat Video Accounts, a rival to ByteDance' TikTok-like app Douyin in China.
 
The news published on the date May 14, 2024 04:26 PM IST with headline  China's Alibaba beats quarterly revenue estimates, profit drops is: 
 China's Alibaba beats quarterly revenue estimates, profit drops China's Alibaba Group Holding beat analysts' estimates for fourth-quarter revenue on Tuesday, as a focus on low-cost goods in response to cautious consumer spending helped boost domestic e-commerce sales in the three-month period.Its U.S.-listed shares, however, fell about 3% in premarket trading, as profit fell about 86% in the fourth quarter.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdConsumers in China have been spending carefully after the pandemic amid an economic slowdown and property slump.Analysts expected strong growth from Alibaba's international digital commerce arm, given its investments in building global market share and appetite among global consumers for low-cost goods from China.Analysts expect a 39% revenue rise in the segment, according to LSEG data.The company reported revenue of 221.87 billion yuan ($30.66 billion)in the three months ended March 31, compared with a consensus estimate of 219.66 billion yuan, according to LSEG data.Net income in the March-quarter was 3.27 billion yuan ($451.94 million), compared with 23.52 billion yuan a year ago.($1 = 7.2355 Chinese yuan renminbi)Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdStory continues below Advertisemen
 
The news published on the date May 14, 2024 04:24 PM IST with headline  Emmanuel Macron wants more European megafirms. Good luck with that is: 
 Emmanuel Macron flagged cross-border deal making as one of many European economic taboos to break in a de-globalizing world dominated by subsidies, tariffs and technological arms races. French President Emmanuel Macron, seemingly more confident about France’s tepid economy and gridlocked politics after clinching €15 billion ($16.2 billion) in investments from the likes of Morgan Stanley and Microsoft Corp., is eyeing a bigger prize: Building more multinational European champions. Bonne chance, you might say.In an interview on Monday with Bloomberg Editor-in-Chief John Micklethwait, Macron flagged cross-border deal making as one of many European economic taboos to break in a de-globalizing world dominated by subsidies, tariffs and technological arms races. “We do need a consolidation,” he said, apparently open to the idea of banks like BNP Paribas SA growing bigger and Societe Generale SA being sold. Citing energy, finance and telecommunications, he added: “We do need as well an actual domestic market as Europeans, which is not the case.”Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe former investment banker has a point. Europe has some of the globe’s biggest firms and a market of 440 million consumers — and, thanks to LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SE, France also hosts the world’s richest person. But broadly speaking, from stock markets to telecoms to banks, national borders are still holding Europe back. Despite the economy’s similar size to the US and China, its companies have a tougher time gaining scale: The revenue gap between big European firms and their US rivals is around $6 trillion, according to McKinsey, and in flag-carrying sectors like telecoms, airlines and defense, that equates to a 30 percent shortfall.And yet, as Macron also knows from having himself engaged in all sorts of boardroom bust-ups in Europe, national preferences are very hard to dislodge — even in a time when European unity looks all too mortal. Look at the semiconductor industry, a key front in the Sino-American chip wars. While Europe has a genuine global champion when it comes to high-end chipmaker-equipment supply in the shape of ASML Holding NV, players like STMicroelectronics NV and Infineon Technologies AG look tiny next to Intel Corp and Nvidia Corp. Europe’s market share in chips is about 10 percent, and even the billions in funding being thrown at the industry to raise that number is splintered by nation: The US has allocated $32.8 billion in semiconductor funding and Europe $24.1 billion across three countries (France, Germany and the Netherlands).The benefits of a more integrated, pan-European sector would be big: A report on artificial intelligence by French experts found that it could unlock an extra €7.7 billion. But there’s a political price that leaders haven’t been willing to pay. With local jobs and geopolitical influence at stake, it’s grim but unsurprising to see reports that Italy’s government is pushing to receive a bigger share of investments made by Franco-Italian firm STMicro. Cross-border deals in chipmaking have recently been blocked on national-security grounds: Mergers and acquisitions data shows semiconductor deal making has been in decline since the pandemic and hit its lowest level in over two decades in 2023. And beyond chips, in sectors like telecoms, European antitrust regulators don’t seem convinced that big mergers would be worth the risk to consumers.
 
The news published on the date May 14, 2024 03:41 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Summer products are flying off the shelves is: 
 Droughts and extreme heat conditions in several parts of the country are impacting crop yields and agricultural activities. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe early onset of the summer season and high temperatures are boosting demand for summer products. Revenues at Voltas’s cooling products division jumped 44 percent in the March 2024 quarter on strong product offtake. Volume increased by a stellar 72 percent. Blue Star also reported strong revenue growth in the unitary cooling products division in the March quarter. However, Voltas’s revenues grew at a faster rate, highlights our Research Team in this piece.Varun Beverages, a large manufacturer of soft drinks and juice based drinks, saw tepid growth in India in the March quarter. Seasonal factors such as delay in the Holi festival and Ramzan weighed on sales. However, the management guided for a strong June 2024 quarter. It expects summer to drive demand for beverages and has ramped up production at its manufacturing plants.“The summer season had started off well with 100 percent capacity utilisation across newly commissioned facilities in India. Volume growth is expected to pick up in the near term,” writes Khushboo Rai.
 
The news published on the date May 14, 2024 02:24 PM IST with headline  India's April palm oil imports jump 34% on lower global prices is: 
 India's April palm oil imports jump 34% on lower global prices India's palm oil imports registered a 34.11 per cent jump on-year in April to 6,84,000 tonnes, buoyed by a fall in global prices, the Solvent Extractors' Association of India (SEA) said on Tuesday.Palm oil accounted for 52 per cent of India's total edible oil imports of 13,04,409 tonnes in April, the trade body said in a statement, adding that sunflower and soybean oils import stood at 6,20,315 tonnes.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIncluding non-edible oils, overall vegetable oil imports rose 26 per cent in April to 13,18,528 tonnes compared to 10,50,189 tonnes a year ago, it said.Bearish global prices encouraged higher imports of refined, bleached and deodorized (RBD) palmolein and crude palm oil (CPO), which declined by nearly USD 100 a tonne last month, SEA said.Soybean oil prices fell USD 40 per tonne globally, while the sunflower oil rate dropped just USD 15 a tonne over the last month, it added.
 
The news published on the date May 14, 2024 01:06 PM IST with headline  Public sector banks' total profit crosses Rs 1.4 lakh crore in FY24 is: 
 Public sector banks' total profit crosses Rs 1.4 lakh crore in FY24 Public sector banks' cumulative profit crossed Rs 1.4 lakh crore in the financial year ended March 2024, recording a growth of 35 per cent over the previous year on a high base of Rs 1 lakh crore.The 12 Public Sector Banks (PSBs) together had earned a net profit of Rs Rs 1,04,649 crore in 2022-23.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOut of the total profit of Rs 141,203 crore earned during the FY24, market leader State Bank of India (SBI) alone contributed over 40 per cent of the total earnings, as per the published numbers on exchanges.SBI earned a profit of Rs 61,077 crore 22 per cent higher than the previous financial year (Rs 50,232 crore).In percentage terms Delhi-based Punjab National Bank had the highest net profit growth with 228 per cent to Rs 8,245 crore, followed by Union Bank of India with a 62 per cent rise to Rs 13,649 crore and Central Bank of India with a 61 per cent increase to Rs 2,549 crore.
 
The news published on the date May 14, 2024 11:15 AM IST with headline  Martin Wolf: Increased longevity will bring profound social change is: 
 The new world has been created by the collapse in death rates of the young. In the UK in 1965, the most common age of death was in the first year of life. Today the most common age to die is 87 years old. This startling statistic comes from a remarkable new book, by Andrew Scott of the London Business School. He notes, too, that a newborn girl in Japan has a 96 per cent chance of making it to 60, while Japanese women have a life expectancy of nearly 88. Japa
 
The news published on the date May 14, 2024 07:40 AM IST with headline  Food inflation rises in April, caution should be the watchword for monetary policy is: 
 The RBI led by Shaktikanta Das is well aware of the risks that arise out of euphoria and is seeking to ensure financial stability There has been some speculation that, in view of the fall in retail inflation, the Monetary Policy Committee may decide to start lowering the policy rate even before the US Fed does.It’s true that the repo rate has remained within the Reserve Bank of India’s 6 percent upper limit since September 2023 and below 5 percent for two months now. The 4.83 percent year-on-year retail inflation in April 2024 is a whisker below the March figure o
 
The news published on the date May 13, 2024 04:22 PM IST with headline  The European Union should burnish its bonds for prime time is: 
 Time for the EU to burnish its bonds. (Source: Bloomberg/Getty Images Europe) Now that the European Union has sold €513 billion ($550 billion) of debt, a stockpile poised to reach at least €800 billion by 2026, the bloc shouldaccelerate plans to qualify as a fully-fledged government bond market. Building a proper primary dealer network, augmented by repurchase facilities and futures contracts, would enhance liquidity, broaden demand from both euro zone and global investors and reduce borrowing costs for the bloc.MSCI Inc and Intercontinental Exchange Inc have issued consultation papers seeking views on the viability of reclassifying EU Commission issues as sovereign debt rather than supranational bonds. That matters because the latter trade at wider dealing spreads akin to corporate debt, while the former have a broader worldwide investor audience. And while MSCI and ICE are second-tier providers of the fixed-income benchmarks against which portfolio managers gauge performance, such a move would set a precedent that more established index compilers including Citigroup Inc, Bank of America Corp. and Bloomberg LP would likely follow.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe EU had barely €50 billion of bonds outstanding before the pandemic hit; the sudden requirement for massive funding to underpin the economy led to a vast upscaling of borrowing by the commission. This kicked off with the SURE job support program in mid-2020, ramping up to the wider NextGen €800 billion program of loans and grants to member states — funded by mutualized debt sales.Qualifying as government debt would bump EU bonds higher up the fixed-income hierarchy when investors are considering where to put money to work. And that wouldn’t just be an intra-euro area dynamic; Mohit Kumar, chief Europe economist at Jefferies Financial Group Inc, reckons that demand from Asian and Middle East sovereign wealth funds would increase.The EU has AAA grades from the major credit-rating companies, yet trades at a modest yield premium to six euro nations — including France, which is rated two notches lower at AA by Standard & Poor’s Corp. So it’s easy to see how the momentum for lower borrowing costs for the bloc could build.
 
The news published on the date May 13, 2024 03:38 PM IST with headline  This week’s round of inflation data will matter greatly is: 
 The cost of living is rising. (Source: Bloomberg/Getty Images) Here we go again. Brace for the latest dose of critical data on US inflation over the next three days, as the New York Federal Reserve publishes its monthly survey of consumers’ inflation expectations Monday, followed by the Labor Department’s report on producer prices Tuesday and consumer prices Wednesday. These reports will matter a lot.Of late, the mood has switched toward optimism that inflation is being tamed, while central banks that met last week either reduced benchmark interest rates, or suggested cutes were imminent. The latest data also show a US economy slowing in just the way the Federal Reserve wants to see. The jobs market has stayed obdurately strong throughout the post-pandemic fight against inflation. That makes it far harder for a central bank to be lenient. But last week, initial US claims for jobless insurance spiked to their highest level since August:Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThis is a noisy series, and last week’s result followed several low numbers, so the four-week moving average of claims remains in its recent healthy range. But a rise in claims like this is exactly what we would expect to see if higher rates were indeed beginning to slow the economy; if they continue to run at this level for another month, it would be far easier for the Fed to justify cuts.Meanwhile, the latest edition of the University of Michigan’s long-running survey of consumer sentiment showed a startling drop in both expectations and assessments of current conditions. Such negativity — when many in the market were braced for a strong “no landing” economy — came as a shock. It’s statistically significant. Again, numbers like this make rate cuts much easier to justify:The problem, as with so much else in 2024, lies with politics. Polarization has led to a wide divergence in economic perceptions. Republicans think things are terrible; Democrats think they’re great. This is how consumer confidence has moved over the last two presidential terms, broken down into the opinions of Republicans, Independents and Democrats:
 
The news published on the date May 13, 2024 03:24 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Why price matters more than size is: 
 Have smaller companies or even the unorganised sector overcome challenges posed by reforms and are now battle-ready for the marketplace wars? Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA small paragraph in NielsenIQ’s March quarter FMCG report gives a data-backed peek into how Indian consumers behave when it comes to price. Known for being value-conscious, the data shows that in the non-food category — such as home and personal care, beauty and so on — small players’ volume growth was a splendid 22 percent compared to 9 percent for the large players. Smaller players had stolen an edge by cutting prices by 6 percent while the large players actually hiked prices by 1 percent.But foods saw roles reverse as here large players cut prices by 3 percent compared to the smaller ones, who increased prices by 4 percent. The result, volumes grew by 8 percent compared to a decline of 4 percent, respectively. While this may seem like a tale of two halves, it is not. Non-foods contribute to nearly 81 percent of the industry’s sales, with foods contributing to the rest. Therefore, the impact of this shift on the industry is significant.The data underscores the point that while much is made about brand loyalty in the FMCG industry, when large price gaps develop consumers lose little time in switching these loyalties. This becomes more acute when they are already reeling under inflation, as Indian consumers have been in recent years.
 
The news published on the date May 13, 2024 12:26 PM IST with headline  Indian renewable energy firm plans maiden dollar bond sale is: 
 Indian renewable energy firm plans maiden dollar bond sale Indian renewable energy firm SAEL Ltd. is planning an inaugural dollar bond sale targeting up to $500 million, according to people familiar with the matter, joining other borrowers to fuel Asia’s hottest high-yield market in five years.The company, which develops sustainable energy projects such as solar plant constructions, aims to launch the debut offering by end of June, with proceeds to be used for business expansion and debt refinancing, the people familiar said. The company is in talks with a group of foreign banks to arrange the bond sale, seeking a tenor in the range of five to seven years, the people added.Story continues below AdvertisementSAEL’s planned note sale is set to add to a recent issuance boom in Asia and worldwide. Issuers globally rushed to tap the dollar debt market last week on lower borrowing costs and risk-on sentiment. Indian corporates in particular, have led Asian junk dollar bond sales to its first revival in five years, with strong investor appetite.A spokeswoman from SAEL declined to comment when reached by Bloomberg News.The offering also comes amid India’s push to ramp up the renewable energy sector. India aims to nearly triple its clean energy capacity by the end of the decade to decarbonize its fossil fuel-driven economy
 
The news published on the date May 13, 2024 12:25 PM IST with headline  Can Europe’s economy ever hope to rival the US again? is: 
 An extra burden for Europe’s economy stems from its ageing population and falling birth rates, which are already creating widespread labour shortages. Martin Arnold in Frankfurt, Sam Fleming in London and Claire Jones in Washington Claus Romanowsky reckons those who claim Europe’s economy is falling technologically behind are out of touch.The chatbot developed by his team at German engineering company Siemens will soon let factory workers anywhere talk to robots and machines without needing to know any code — potentially reaping massive gains in productivity.“If you are a worker coming in to start your shift and a machine is no
 
The news published on the date May 13, 2024 11:57 AM IST with headline  India's imports from FTA partners up 38% during 2019-24 fiscal years: GTRI is: 
 India's imports from FTA partners up 38% during 2019-24 fiscal years: GTRI India's imports of goods from countries with which it has a free trade agreement like the UAE, South Korea, and Australia grew about 38 per cent during 2019-24 fiscal years to USD 187.92 billion, according to think tank GTRI.On the other hand, the country's exports to the FTA (free trade agreement) partners rose 14.48 per cent to USD 122.72 billion in 2023-24 from USD 107.20 billion in 2018-19.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"From FY'2019 to FY'2024, India's imports increased by 37.97 per cent, from USD 136.20 billion to USD 187.92 billion. This growth highlights the significant and varied impact of free trade agreements on India's global trade dynamics," the Global Trade Research Initiative data showed.According to the data, India's exports to the UAE increased by 18.25 per cent to USD 35.63 billion in 2023-24 as against USD 30.13 billion in 2018-19, while imports surged 61.21 per cent, from USD 29.79 billion in FY2019 to USD 48.02 billion in the last fiscal.The FTA between India and the UAE came into effect in May 2022.
 
The news published on the date May 13, 2024 10:07 AM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Market Outlook | Multiple oversold indicators suggest a likely reversal is: 
 Indian markets had a rough week. Dear Reader, The Indian markets experienced selling throughout the week, largely attributed to the relentless selling from Foreign Institutional Investors (FIIs) who sold Rs 24,975.5 crore worth of shares in a week, resulting in a 1.87 percent decline in the Nifty50. Notably, India emerged as one of the weakest performers globally.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMarket talk of some India-specific foreign funds winding up their India operations is being cited as the main reason for the fall in the markets. This speculation coincided with a week where most markets displayed considerable strength. Consequently, the volatility index, represented by India Vix, surged to 18.4, marking its peak for the year.In addition to FII selling, the subdued voter turnout in the ongoing general elections has compounded market anxieties. The combination of these factors underscores the current apprehensive sentiment prevailing within the market landscape.Oversold indicators
 
The news published on the date May 12, 2024 10:46 PM IST with headline  China credit shrinks for first time, loan growth disappoints is: 
 Financial institutions offered 731 billion yuan of new loans in April, lower than a projected 916 billion yuan. The year-on-year growth rate of outstanding loans edged down to 9.1% from 9.2% in March China’s credit in April shrank for the first time as government bond sales slowed, while loan expansion was worse than expected in a sign of weak demand. Aggregate financing, a broad measure of credit, decreased by almost 200 billion yuan ($27.7 billion) in April from the previous month, according to Bloomberg calculations of data released by the People’s Bank of China on May 11. That’s the first time the measure has declined since comparable data began in 2017, reflecting a contraction in financing activity.Looking back further, using a smaller data set that excludes things like government funding, it was the first decrease since October 2005, according to Bloomberg Economics.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA breakdown of the data shows that more government bonds were repaid than sold in the month, contributing to the decline. Financing from shadow banking — which refers to activities outside the formal banking system — also recorded a drop, weighing on overall credit. China's broad credit measureFinancial institutions offered 731 billion yuan of new loans in April, lower than a projected 916 billion yuan. The year-on-year growth rate of outstanding loans edged down to 9.1 percent from 9.2 percent in March.
 
The news published on the date May 12, 2024 02:58 PM IST with headline  Next round of talks for India-Asean trade pact review in July is: 
 The Joint Committee undertaking the review work has met four times so far Senior officials of India and the 10-nation bloc of Southeast Asian nations – ASEAN – will hold the next round of talks in July to review the existing free trade agreement in Jakarta, Indonesia, an official statement said on Sunday.The last round of the three-day negotiations concluded on May 9 in Putrajaya, Malaysia.The discussions for review of AITIGA (Asean-India Trade in Goods Agreement) started in May 2023 to make it more trade-facilitative and beneficial for businesses across the region, the commerce ministry said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA joint committee, which is undertaking the review work, has so far met four times.It has finalised its terms of reference and the negotiating structure for the review in its first two meetings and initiated talks for the review from its third meeting, which was held on February 18-19 here.”The fourth Joint Committee meeting for the review of AITIGA was held in Putrajaya, Malaysia from 7-9 May,” the statement said.The committee was co-chaired by Rajesh Agrawal, Additional Secretary in the Department of Commerce, and Mastura Ahmad Mustafa, Deputy Secretary General (Trade), Ministry of Investment, Trade and Industry, Malaysia.India and the 10-nation bloc ASEAN have agreed to conclude talks in 2025.The delegates from India and all 10 ASEAN countries participated in the discussions.The ministry said that 8 sub-committees have been constituted to deal with different policy areas of the agreement in the review, and out of these, five have started their discussions.The issues being negotiated by these committees include national treatment and market access, rules of origin, standards, technical regulations, conformity assessment procedures and legal and institutional.ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) is one of the major trade partners of the country, with a share of 11 per cent in India’s global trade.The bilateral trade stood at USD 122.67 billion in 2023-24.”The upgradation of AITIGA will further boost bilateral trade. Both sides would next meet for the fifth joint committee meeting from 29-31 July 2024 in Jakarta, Indonesia,” the statement said.The review of the AITIGA was a long-standing demand of Indian businesses.India has asked for a review of the agreement to eliminate barriers and misuse of the trade pact.Members of the Asean include Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam.
 
The news published on the date May 11, 2024 10:06 AM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Weekender | What the Vix says about elections is: 
 The markets do not like uncertainty and there is always an element of that during elections Dear Reader,The markets took a breather this week, with some commentators putting it down to worries about whether the ruling alliance will get the number of seats earlier anticipated, which were sparked by the low voter turnout. The India Vix, aka the Fear Gauge, has moved up from a low of 10.2 on April 23 to around 18.4, the highest this year. Indeed, it’s now at the highest level since October 2022, indicating that the markets are worried.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA longer view of the India Vix offers clues. During the 2019 general election held in April and May of that year, the India Vix climbed from 14.9 on March 8 to 28.08 on May 17. By July that year, it came down to 12 after the Narendra Modi-led BJP recorded a thumping victory.Take the 2014 general election next, which too was held in April and May. The India Vix moved up from 14.04 on February 21 to a high of 37.71 on May 9, 2014.Consider also the general elections held in April and May 2009, which saw the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government retain power. This was when world markets were in turmoil, thanks to the Global Financial Crisis. Reflecting that turbulence, the India Vix had spiked to a high of 90 in October 2008, in the aftermath of the collapse of Lehman Brothers. By February 2009, the India Vix had become a more reasonable 40. Nevertheless, even from that high level, it went up to a high of 84.9 in May. Clearly, the results were not to the market’s liking. By May 29, 2009, however, the Vix had come down to 40.
 
The news published on the date May 10, 2024 08:54 PM IST with headline  Dollar rises after consumer sentiment data, yen weaker is: 
 Dollar rises after consumer sentiment data, yen weaker The dollar inched higher on Friday as investors digested a reading on U.S. consumer sentiment and sifted through a flurry of comments from Federal Reserve officials, while the yen was poised for its fourth decline of the week.The greenback pared declines and turned modestly higher after the University of Michigan's preliminary of consumer sentiment came in at 67.4 for May, a six-month low and below the 76.0 estimate of economists polled by Reuters. In addition, the one-year inflation expectation climbed to 3.5% from 3.2%.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe dollar had weakened on Thursday after a higher than expected reading on initial jobless claims fueled expectations the labor market was loosening, adding to other recent data that indicated the overall economy was slowing.The dollar index, which measures the greenback against a basket of currencies, gained 0.15% at 105.38, with the euro down 0.18% at $1.0762. The dollar was on track for its first weekly gain after two straight weeks of declines.Next week investors will eye readings on inflation in the form of the consumer price index (CPI) and producer price index (PPI), as well as retail sales data.
 
The news published on the date May 10, 2024 05:54 PM IST with headline  Rupee closes little changed, logs slight weekly decline is: 
 Rupee closes little changed, logs slight weekly decline The Indian rupee closed nearly flat on Friday, tracking subdued moves in its Asian peers and as expectations of the central bank's intervention blunted the pressure of dollar demand from local oil companies and foreign banks.The rupee ended at 83.50 against the U.S. dollar, barely changed from its previous close at 83.5025. The local currency declined nearly 0.1% week-on-week.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBenchmark Indian equity indices, the BSE Sensex and Nifty 50, closed higher but were down 1.6% and 1.8%, respectively, on the week as jitters about the upcoming results of the national elections prompted selling by foreign investors.Overseas investors have pulled out nearly $2 billion from Indian equities in May so far, contributing to pressure on the rupee.But the currency's losses have been capped by market expectations that the Reserve Bank of India will curb sharp declines, traders said.
 
The news published on the date May 10, 2024 04:59 PM IST with headline  China’s housing crisis is stressing Xi Jinping’s state-owned developers is: 
 China’s real estate sector has fundamentally changed, in that existing home sales will be the norm, as is the case with developed countries. (Representative image) A third year into an unprecedented housing downturn, China’s President Xi Jinping seems to be finally getting worried, prompting speculation of quantitative easing and fueling a bull run in Hong Kong-listed Chinese stocks.The latest readout from the Politburo meeting, released on April 30, explains investors’ excitement. The country’s 24 most powerful men (yes, all men) appeared open to taking a different approach to resolving the property crisis, calling for coordinated measures to digest existing housing stock.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe last time the Politburo mentioned the real estate inventory issues was in mid-2016. A massive stimulus in the form of slum redevelopments ensued, with the People’s Bank of China unleashing more than 3 trillion yuan ($416 billion) in pledged lending in support. That initiative pulled China’s property and stock markets out of a slump. Since Beijing has been floating the idea of urban village renovation lately, Xi is essentially opening the door to his second bazooka.Two main questions arise from the Politburo’s vague wording. First, what prompted the change of heart from Xi, who has largely sat on the sidelines while the real estate crisis unfolded. Second, how big will the state funding be this time around?One possible explanation is that the broader economic slowdown aside, China’s property mess is finally coming for Xi’s cherished state-owned enterprises. A year ago, sales at SOE developers were recovering nicely. Unnerved by unfinished flats that private builders left behind, homebuyers prized SOEs’ implicit guarantee that the government will step in if projects go sour and bought their apartments instead.
 
The news published on the date May 10, 2024 04:11 PM IST with headline  The Reading List: May 10, 2024 is: 
 A selection of articles and social media gems from the world of economy, business and finance. In a world strapped for time, we thought you may find it useful to have a selection of articles we read this past week. As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. Occasionally, we may stray from these subjects.These links may be from external websites we frequent o
 
The news published on the date May 10, 2024 03:53 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Leverage is a party only few can enjoy is: 
 The leverage should not be fat in a way that it is difficult to move. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdLeverage can be traced back to this seminal quote from the Greek philosopher Archimedes, “Give me a lever long enough and a place to stand, and I shall move the earth.” Any investor worth his salt will be willing to hold a placard saying, “Give me enough leverage and I shall move capital across borders.”In simple terms, leverage is using borrowed funds, or debt, to gain outsized returns from your investments. If your returns pay you more than you expected, chances are that you will repeat the process and set off a trend that will be adopted by others. Corporations use leverage, a synonym for debt, to set up factories, open new shops and grow their revenue. Households borrow to consume or meet emergencies. Investment funds borrow simply to move capital from a place of excess to a place of deficit and earn hefty returns in this process.But here is a catch that Archimedes knew about leverage, and we sometimes ignore. The lever (or leverage) should not be fat in a way that it is difficult to move. Too much of leverage can kill the balance sheet it is resting on. Howard Marks, investment guru and co-founder of Oaktree Capital Management, wrote in his latest memo, reproduced by FT here and free to read for Moneycontrol Pro subscribers, that investors must exercise caution in using debt. “The most important adage regarding leverage reminds us to “never forget the six-foot-tall person who drowned crossing the stream that was five feet deep on average,” Marks wrote.The heavier the burden you carry, the higher are the odds to sink. This was on display during the 2008 global financial crisis and India’s debilitating bad loan cycle of 2016-19. Is something similar happening right now?
 
The news published on the date May 10, 2024 03:50 PM IST with headline  Gold rallies over 1% as US rate cut hopes revive is: 
 Gold rallies over 1% as US rate cut hopes revive Gold prices strengthened on Friday and are on track for their best week since early April, as weak U.S. employment figures fuelled bets of interest rates cuts by the Federal Reserve this year.Spot gold gained 1.1% to $2,372.16 per ounce by 0925 GMT, hitting its highest in more than two weeks. Prices have risen over 3% so far in the week.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdU.S. gold futures jumped 1.7% to $2,379.00."The (gold) price remains in a positive mood as investors continue to increase their position as they are betting that the Federal Reserve will cut interest rates by the end of the year and European central banks are doing the same," said Carlo Alberto De Casa, a market analyst at Kinesis Money.Gold extended gains after jumping 1% on Thursday in response to the data showing the number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits increased more than expected last week.
 
The news published on the date May 10, 2024 03:47 PM IST with headline  Oil benchmark Brent above $84 on perky US, China demand signals is: 
 Oil benchmark Brent above $84 on perky US, China demand signals Global benchmark Brent hovered above $84 a barrel on Friday after data this week signalled growing demand in the U.S. and China, the world's two largest crude users, while festering conflict in the Middle East added support.Brent futures were up 51 cents to $84.39 a barrel at 0956 GMT. U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude was up 57 cents to $79.83.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFalling U.S. crude inventories spurred by higher refinery runs coincided with data released on Thursday showing China's oil imports in April were higher than last year on signs of improving trade activity.China's exports and imports returned to growth in April after contracting in the previous month."Ongoing signs of strength in demand in China should see commodity market remain well supported," ANZ Research analysts said in a note.
 
The news published on the date May 10, 2024 01:50 PM IST with headline  As many as 17 firms under IT hardware PLI to start production this year: IT Secretary is: 
 As many as 17 firms under IT hardware PLI to start production this year: IT Secretary Majority of personal computer and server makers selected under the IT hardware production-linked incentive scheme are expected to start production this year, a senior government official said on Friday."... About 17 out of 27 PLI companies will start production this year. Around 6-7 of them started production last year and two have plans to start production next year," Ministry of Electronics and IT (MeitY) Secretary S Krishnan said on the sidelines of the inauguration of a new high-end computing server manufacturing unit of Netweb Technologies here.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe government in November, 2023 approved the application of 27 companies, including Dell, HP, Foxconn, Lenovo, Netweb Technologies, under new production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for IT hardware.Among the big names that have been granted approval under the IT hardware scheme are Flextronics, VVDN, and Optiemus. Other applicants that have received the green signal include Padget Electronics, SOJO Manufacturing Services, Goodworth, Neolync, Syrma SGS, Mega Networks, Panache Digilife, and ITI Ltd, among others.On the Rs 10,372-crore India AI mission, Krishnan said domestic companies will get preference.
 
The news published on the date May 10, 2024 11:38 AM IST with headline  Are modern media incentives distorting our sense of the economy? is: 
 News articles written about the economy have been more and more downbeat. John Burn-MurdochThe following two sentences might seem a little surprising, coming from a journalist at a large media organisation armed with cutting-edge analytics displaying how each article, newsletter and podcast is performing, but here they are nonetheless.First, I think it’s reasonable to argue that the age of mass media has not been unambiguously good for public understanding of the world. And second, the more information publishers and broadcasters have had about how their audience is interacting wit
 
The news published on the date May 10, 2024 10:46 AM IST with headline  Discipline in project finance is needed, but in moderation is: 
 It is important to note that the move is at the proposal stage, and is open to debate until the middle of next month After the global financial crisis of 2008, creditors in India had loosened their purse strings and infrastructure lending picked up at full pace. While this helped restart the economy, overoptimistic revenue projections for projects and their delayed execution led to defaults and accumulation of sizeable bad loans on banks’ books. By 2013, as much as 11 percent of loans had turned bad.While this was cleaned up subsequently over the years, the write-offs and uncertainty weighed heavily o
 
The news published on the date May 10, 2024 10:18 AM IST with headline  Gold is becoming the new currency of the world, dollar losing its grip is: 
 India ranks 9th in the world in terms of official gold reserves. Since the First World War, dollar’s importance in the world has been continuously increasing. When America's allies started giving gold in exchange for their imports, the United States officially became the world's largest gold reserve. After the war, many countries linked their currencies to the dollar and with this the gold standard ended and the dollar became the most preferred currency in the world. All nations started maintaining foreign exchange reserves in the form of dollars, and thus by 1999, the share of the dollar in the total foreign exchange reserves of the world increased to 71 percent. At the same time, many European nations decided to adopt a common currency called ‘Euro’.Due to this, the share of the dollar and global reserve currency started decreasing. According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the dollar's share as global reserve was 62 percent in 2010 and 59 percent in 2020 and 58.41 percent in 2023. Though the importance of the dollar is decreasing, it continues to remain the world's most preferred currency. It’s notable that, ‘Euro’ comes at a distant second place, and it constitutes barely about 20 percent. In terms of Indian rupee, where one dollar was equal to 4.66 rupees in 1964, it has now become much stronger compared to other currencies, to reach 83.4 rupees per dollar.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSigns of De-dollarisation But for some time now, there have been signs of de-dollarisation in the world. Due to the continuous strengthening of the dollar, almost all the countries, especially the developing ones, have suffered hugely. The Government of India and the Reserve Bank of India have been constantly trying to increase the role of the rupee in international payments. In this regard, agreements and arrangements have been made with about 20 countries. On the other hand, due to the difficulty in international transactions, triggered by turmoil and especially the sanctions imposed by the US and European countries on Russia, efforts to make payments in local currencies have also increased in other countries.The world's aversion towards the dollar has further accentuated because US has confiscated all of Russia's dollar reserves, calling Russia, an aggressor. Other countries realised they may face payment problems like Russia. And so, they are making two-pronged efforts. One, payment in local currencies and second, increase in gold reserves in place of dollars.
 
The news published on the date May 10, 2024 08:43 AM IST with headline  SBI’s Q4 reflects India’s economic buoyancy, gives hope for more is: 
 SBI reported stellar Q4 performance HighlightsSBI’s loan growth was 15.24 percent, despite a hefty balance sheet sizeThe bank’s chief expects to achieve 13-15 percent loan growth for FY25Additional provisioning from proposed rules on project financing would be easily absorbed by the bankAsset quality improved with bad loan ratios reducing, slippages fellA firm lid on operating expenses was the big boost to SBI's net profi
 
The news published on the date May 10, 2024 09:46 AM IST with headline  Chart of the Day: Is there a two-speed consumption rate in Indian households? is: 
 Consumption is two-speed among Indian households Private consumption expenditure has been a worry point in an otherwise robust economic growth cycle for India in the past year. Consumption, which accounts of more than half of gross domestic product, grew by a mere 3.52 percent in the third quarter of FY24 and most forecasters expect consumption to grow about 4.5 percent for the full year.That said, there are two distinct narratives surrounding consumption in India. One is the robustness in certain metrics such a
 
The news published on the date May 09, 2024 06:52 PM IST with headline  India projects biggest power shortfall in 14 years in June is: 
 Labourers work next to electricity pylons in Mumbai India is projecting its biggest power shortfall in 14 years in June after a slump in hydropower generation, its government told Reuters, and is racing to avoid outages by deferring planned plant maintenance and re-opening idled units.The deficit also follows delays, a government source said, in the commissioning of 3.6 gigawatts (GW) of new coal-fired plants which had been targeted to be operational before March.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA peak shortage of 14 GW is forecast in June during nighttime hours, when solar capacity is offline, the Central Electricity Authority, the country's planning body for the power sector, told Reuters in a statement."The planning process relies on worst-case scenarios," it said.The gap is the widest since 2009-10, according to publicly available government data. India's hydroelectricity output fell at the steepest pace in four decades in the year ended March 31, while renewable energy generation was flat.
 
The news published on the date May 09, 2024 05:54 PM IST with headline  India's 2023-24 fiscal deficit seen slightly better than projected: Report is: 
 Indian government will release the 2023/24 fiscal deficit data on May 31 India’s fiscal deficit for the year ending March 2024 is expected to be slightly better than the government’s projection of 17.35 trillion rupees ($207.81 billion), a government source told Reuters on Thursday.”Extra tax receipts and some non-tax revenues helped in bettering the fiscal deficit target,” the government source, who did not want to be named, told reporters in New Delhi. Indian government will release the 2023/24 fiscal deficit data on May 31.Story continues below AdvertisementIndia’s income tax receipts rose 17.7% year-on-year to nearly $235 billion in 2023/24, higher than government’s projection. The government is targeting a fiscal deficit of 5.9% of GDP for that financial year.The official did not specify if the fiscal deficit as a percentage of GDP would also be lower than target. India’s spending plans for April-June have not been impacted due to the ongoing elections, the source said, without giving details.Meanwhile, the government will assess if it needs to undertake another round of buying back government securities, after the central bank accepted offers to buy back government bonds worth 105.10 billion rupees at an auction on Thursday against the notified amount of 400 billion rupees
 
The news published on the date May 09, 2024 05:17 PM IST with headline  Indian renewables may get costlier as RBI mulls changes is: 
 The requirement of keeping a greater amount of money to cover any defaults typically forces banks to raise lending rates to maintain profitability The Indian central bank’s proposals on project financing may add as much as 1 percentage point to the borrowing costs of renewables projects, according to a top consultancy firm, potentially causing a hike in wind and solar power prices in the country.Lenders will be needed to set aside as much as 5% of the capital they lend to infrastructure projects under construction, a draft by the Reserve Bank of India stipulates. That compares with the current norm of just 0.4% provisioning for standard assets. The allocation can come down to as low as 1% as the project matures and starts generating cash for repayment of the loan.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“It’s definitely going to have a bearing,” said Srishti Ahuja, a partner for infrastructure strategy and transactions at EY India. Besides raising the cost of funding, “it will also make it more difficult for projects under construction to get financing,” she told Bloomberg Television in an interview.If the proposals come into force, there could be a slowdown in the pace of deployment of renewables at a time when the nation is targeting to accelerate green energy installations to meet goals for 2030 and beyond. The proposed guidelines could also impact other projects, such as coal, road and hydropower, which generally have a longer gestation period.The requirement of keeping a greater amount of money to cover any defaults typically forces banks to raise lending rates to maintain profitability.
 
The news published on the date May 09, 2024 04:45 PM IST with headline  Bank of England keeps interest rates unchanged at 5.25%, moves closer to first rate cut since 2020 is: 
 The Bank of England building is seen surrounded by flowers in London The Bank of England has kept its main U.K. interest rate at a 16-year high of 5.25% with several policymakers still worrying about some key inflation measures.In a statement Thursday, the bank's nine-member Monetary Policy Committee voted 7-2 to keep rates unchanged, with the 2 dissenters backing a quarter-point reduction. Last time, only one member voted for a quarter-point cut.Story continues below AdvertisementThe increase in the number of those backing a rate reduction is a clear indication that cuts are on the cards.Like the U.S. Federal Reserve last week, which also kept rates, on hold, the majority on the panel wanted to see more evidence that inflation is under control.The Bank of England, like the U.S. Fed and other central banks around the world, raised interest rates aggressively in late 2021 from near zero to counter price rises first stoked by supply chain issues during the coronavirus pandemic and then by Russia's invasion of Ukraine
 
The news published on the date May 09, 2024 04:25 PM IST with headline  Panama’s new President inherits a success story gone wrong is: 
 Panama has a crucial role to play in addressing the humanitarian crisis of migrants crossing the dangerous Darien Gap connecting South with Central America as they venture toward the US. Just two years ago, Panama’s President Laurentino Cortizo boasted about his country’s success, saying it was the result of political unity, close government-business partnerships and logistical wonders. Little did he know that by the time his term was about to end in mid-2024, all the pillars that made Panama the most successful Latin American economy of the past 30 years would be shaking.Since Cortizo’s remarks, the Central American nation has endured social unrest, the cancellation of a $10 billion copper mine (the country’s biggest private investment) and serious doubts about the government’s fiscal sustainability after losing its investment grade with Fitch Ratings. The country’s engineering marvel, the Panama Canal, has been hit by ahistoric drought that has created a cargo bottleneck and forced emergency plans to fix a channel that handles $270 billion a year in global trade.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThis combination represents an existential crisis for Panama: The country that captivated corporations and bankers with open trade, business-friendly legislation and its dollarized economy — turning Panama City into a high-rise-packed financial center akin to Miami — requires urgentreinvention.It’s through this prism that the presidency of José Raúl Mulino, who wonSunday’s elections and will take power on July 1, should be seen: Despite the vote’s largely muted international repercussions, we should pay close attention to the new government’s approach because Panama’sgeopolitical weight transcends its slender geography (slightly smaller than South Carolina). In fact, the problems that Mulino will inherit are amicrocosm of Latin America’s big challenges: political divisions, popular discontent amid corruption and lack of quality jobs, increasing migration, fast-deteriorating public finances and the impact of climate change on business. Despite doubling the region’s average GDP per capita this century and achieving the income levels of an Eastern European country,Panama remains embroiled in the same difficulties as its neighbours.The good news is that unlike some of his regional peers, the incomingpresident has a strong pro-private sector bias: “We will promote a pro-investment, pro-private company government,” he told supporters during his first rally as president-elect on May 5, also pledging to build a team “with the best people” without forgetting the needy.
 
The news published on the date May 09, 2024 03:38 PM IST with headline  Household savings decline due to rising home, auto, personal loans is: 
 Loans to households by financial corporations and NBFCs increased four-fold to Rs 3.33 lakh crore in 2022-23 from Rs 93,723 crore in 2020-21 Household savings are estimated to have declined for the third year in a row in FY24 as liabilities on account of interest towards housing and vehicle loans have continued to rise, but the trend could reverse in 2024-25 on account of the impact of RBI’s curbs on personal loan.The net household savings declined sharply by Rs 9 lakh crore to Rs 14.16 lakh crore in three years to 2022-23, as per the National Account Statistics 2024 data released by the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MoSPI).Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdExplaining the data, ICRA Chief Economist Aditi Nayar attributed the declining trend in household savings to a sharp 73 per cent year-on-year increase in liabilities during 2022-23. She further said that as per the indication the trend of decrease in household savings has continued in 2023-24, the data for which is likely to be released later. However, the trend could reverse in 2024-25 as Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has taken measures to curb unsecured personal loans, she told PTI.Chief Economic Advisor V Anantha Nageswaran attributed the decline to a shift in portfolio where savings were being channelised to real assets. ”Household net financial savings flows were lower in FY23 and there were some concerns around that, which said households are saving less. But, in reality, it was a portfolio shift where the savings were going into real assets,” Nageswaran had said at a NCAER event on Wednesday.Following is an explainer of what household savings means, the historical data and the outlook for 2024-25. 1. What does households mean? Households include everything that is not government or corporate within the national accounts statistics system of classification. It can include partnership and sole proprietorship. 2. How has the household savings been historically? Household savings had touched a peak of Rs 23.29 lakh crore in 2020-21 — the year which saw the second wave of the Covid pandemic. Following that it has been on a decline.
 
The news published on the date May 09, 2024 02:50 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | A boost for consumption is: 
 Signs of consumer demand is picking up. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThis week brought with it signs of the long-awaited uptick in rural demand. A Nielsen IQ report said sales volumes for fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) companies rose by 6.5 percent in the March quarter from a year ago, and even outpaced urban sales growth, which has been hobbled by increased competition.The March quarter results of FMCG companies bear out the optimism. Analyses of FMCG companies by our independent research team say rural growth will outpace urban in the second half of the fiscal year for Godrej Consumer Products; that Marico’s results show a rise in rural demand; that Britannia’s volume growth will grow in the double digits in FY25.Nor is the rise in demand limited to consumer staples—auto sales numbers also bear out this trend. Two-wheeler registrations were up 33 percent year-on-year in April while retail sales of passenger vehicles were up 16 percent from a year ago. My colleague Nitin Agarwal, writing on Hero MotoCorp’s Q4 results, said, “The company is seeing a surge in demand, particularly in rural areas, supported by the combination of renewed consumer interest and the introduction of new models in the premium segment.” As for TVS Motors, the management has said demand in urban areas continues to be strong and demand from rural areas is picking up.
 
The news published on the date May 09, 2024 12:53 PM IST with headline  India to delay payments market cap, helping Walmart-backed PhonePe, Google Pay is: 
 India to delay payments market cap, helping Walmart-backed PhonePe, Google Pay India will again delay caps on market share for a popular digital payments method, two sources told Reuters, benefiting Google Pay and Walmart-backed PhonePe as the authorities prioritise growth over concerns about market concentration.The National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), the quasi-regulator, will extend by as much as two years a year-end deadline to cap at 30% the market share of any company processing payments via the Unified Payment Interface (UPI), the sources with direct knowledge of the matter told Reuters.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPhonePe's share of UPI payments has risen to 48.3% from 37% in April 2020, while Google Pay's share has declined to 37.4% from 44%, according to NPCI data. The two processed a combined 11.5 billion transactions in April, the data showed.NPCI and Google Pay declined to comment. PhonePe did not respond to an email seeking comment.India launched UPI in 2016 but barred companies from charging for the instant digital payments service in an effort to promote online transactions and reduce the use of cash in Asia's third-largest economy.
 
The news published on the date May 09, 2024 12:33 PM IST with headline  India fires up coal use and emissions during election, heat wave is: 
 India fires up coal use and emissions during election, heat wave India's coal-fired electricity generation and power sector emissions hit record highs during the first quarter as above-average temperatures spurred higher air conditioner use and economic expansion drove greater overall power consumption.Coal-fired electricity output hit 338 terawatt hours during the first quarter of 2024, according to think tank Ember, which marked a 9.6% rise from the same quarter in 2023.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTotal power sector emissions climbed by the same degree to a record 316 million metric tons of carbon dioxide and equivalent gases.The country's power sector discharged a record 108 million tons of CO2 in March alone, and has emitted more than 100 million tons of CO2 each month so far in 2024, a record stretch for the country's power suppliers.An extended heat wave throughout much of the country has likely resulted in even higher coal-fired generation since March, as power firms attempt to avert outages during the ongoing general election.
 
The news published on the date May 09, 2024 12:23 PM IST with headline  Why investors should exercise restraint on debt is: 
 As with so many aspects of investing, determining the proper amount of leverage has to be a function of optimising, not maximising. Howard MarksThe writer is co-founder and co-chair of Oaktree Capital Management and author of ‘Mastering the Market Cycle: Getting the Odds on Your Side’It is obvious that all else being equal, people and companies that are indebted are more likely to run into trouble than those that are not. It is the presence of debt that creates the possibility of default, foreclosure and bankruptcy.Does that mean debt is a bad thing and should be avoided? Absolutely not. Rather, i
 
The news published on the date May 09, 2024 10:47 PM IST with headline  Manufacturing entry to help de-risk against supply chain disruptions; The aim is to scale up to 20 GW: JSW Energy CEO is: 
 Sharad Mahendra, joint managing director and CEO of JSW Energy shares company's growth an diversification plans with Moneycontrol. Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × JSW Energy, the power utility of the Sajjan Jindal-led JSW Group, is diversifying into manufacturing to reduce risks related to supply as the company looks to scale up capacity to 20 gigawatts (GW) ahead of its 2030 target.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdJSW Energy reported a 24% year-on-year rise in net profit in the fourth quarter of FY24, with revenue increasing by 3%. For FY24, the company reported its highest-ever earnings before interest, depreciation, tax and amortisation, and raised Rs 5,000 crore through qualified institutional placement of shares. It now has board approval to raise another Rs 10,000 crore.Joint Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer Sharad Mahendra spoke to Moneycontrol on the company’s plans for capex in FY25, as well as its acquisitions and entry into wind turbine and battery manufacturing.Edited excerpts follow:
 
The news published on the date May 09, 2024 09:45 AM IST with headline  How the national economic pie was shared is: 
 - HighlightsThe contribution of the private corporate sector, including both financial and non-financial corporations, to overall gross value added, has increasedPart of this increase in share was achieved at the expense of the public sector corporationsThe share of the household sector has also shrunk in total GVAGovernment’s share in gross capital formation has gone up, thanks to its thrust on infrastructureThe household sector’s share in total gross savings has gone down much more, while the share of saving
 
The news published on the date May 09, 2024 07:51 AM IST with headline  India inflation likely slipped in April: Poll is: 
 India inflation likely slipped in April: Poll India's consumer price inflation is likely to have eased to 4.80% in April, just shy of March's rate as food inflation remains sticky, according to economists polled by Reuters.While headline inflation has moderated in recent months, food prices, which account for nearly half the consumer price index (CPI) basket, have remained elevated, squeezing household budgets.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWith parts of the country experiencing a heatwave, food prices continue to pose an additional risk to India's inflation trajectory, according to the latest Reserve Bank of India bulletin.The May 3-8 Reuters poll of 44 economists showed consumer price inflation likely slipped to 4.80% in April, versus 4.85% in March.Forecasts ranged between 4.50% and 5.10%, with a third of respondents predicting inflation to be above the March reading.
 
The news published on the date May 08, 2024 07:48 PM IST with headline  Sula Vineyards Q4 net profit falls 4.85% to Rs 13.55 cr is: 
 Sula Vineyards Q4 net profit falls 4.85% to Rs 13.55 cr Wine producer Sula Vineyards Ltd on Wednesday reported a 4.85 per cent decline in consolidated net profit to Rs 13.55 crore in the fourth quarter ended March 2024.The company had posted a consolidated net profit of Rs 14.24 crore in the same quarter a year ago, Sula Vineyards said in a regulatory filing.Consolidated revenue from operations during the quarter under review stood at Rs 131.7 crore as against Rs 120 crore in the year-ago period, it added.Total expenses in the fourth quarter were higher at Rs 116.83 crore compared to Rs 100.83 crore in the corresponding period previous year, the company said."Our premiumisation efforts have succeeded in raising our Elite and Premium wine share to an all-time high of 75.1 per cent in Q4, up from 71.7 per cent a year ago," Sula CEO Rajeev Samant said.Further, he said, "Our wine tourism revenues grew in double digits, for the fifth quarter in a row. Wine tourism is a top priority and we are expanding fast." Samant said after the completion of the acquisition, ND Wines is now a part of Sula. Work is about to begin on expanding the current 120 sq ft bottle shop to a 3,600 sq ft wine tourism destination less than 50 km from the Gujarat border."All these projects, and more to come, will ensure that Sula remains firmly in the forefront of wine tourism in India. A great harvest, booming wine tourism, and growing consumer preference for our premium Indian wines point to a sunny road ahead for Sula," he added.For the fiscal ended on March 31, 2024, the consolidated net profit was Rs 93.31 crore as against Rs 84.05 crore in the previous fiscal.For FY24, consolidated revenue from operations was Rs 608.65 crore compared to Rs 553.47 crore in FY23, the company said.The board of directors have recommended a final dividend of Rs 4.50 per share on the equity shares of face value of Rs 2 each for the financial year ended on March 31, 2024, subject to approval of the shareholders at the ensuing annual general meeting, Sula Vineyards said. PTI RKL SH
 
The news published on the date May 08, 2024 05:22 PM IST with headline  If pigs get bird flu, we could be in for a real nightmare is: 
 Pigs are capable of harboring both human flu and bird flu, allowing the viruses to mix and match parts of their genetic material. (Source: Bloomberg/Getty Images) The bird flu outbreak among dairy cows continues to generate alarm, despite reassuring news that pasteurized milk is unlikely to infect anyone with H5N1. Scientists can’t stop worrying about a nightmare scenario: that the virus will get into pigs and, from there, spark a human pandemic.Pigs “are the perfect vessels through which an even more virulent strain could emerge,” said Nirav Shah, principal deputy director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention at a May 2 briefing by the Council on Foreign Relations.Pigs are capable of harboring both human flu and bird flu, allowing the viruses to mix and match parts of their genetic material. A 2009 flu pandemic started with a pig-to-human transmission. That strain, called H1N1, wasn’t deadlier than seasonal flu, but that was just a lucky break.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdNow is the time to get ahead of 2024’s H5N1 virus with systematic testing of both sick and healthy-looking animals — including pigs. Scientists agree such testing is essential to understanding the situation, and they have the test kits. What they’re missing is a nimble change in policy that would ensure the cooperation of farmers who fear economic ruin if their animals test positive.Thousands of chickens and turkeys are already monitored — thanks to agreements that reassure farmers they won’t be financially ruined by positive tests. Government compensation for “culling” birds has brought on its own set of controversies, but right now there’s no system to compensate farmers for H5N1 infected cows or pigs, which means they have no incentive to let public health officials do enough testing. The US Department of Agriculture recently required testing of dairy cows only if they were being transferred to other states. It’s up to our political leaders to make further policy changes so that farmers are encouraged to work with scientists — and scientists can do the research they need to do.This must extend to testing of healthy-looking animals. A recent analysis of the genetic material of the virus suggests it may have been spreading stealthily in cows since last December, long before the first case was detected in late March. Failing to test asymptomatic animals would be a mistake akin to the insufficient testing for Covid-19 in early 2020. That was one of the most egregious public health mistakes of that pandemic —people who didn’t meet very specific criteria (like having recently traveled to China) were unable to get a test, allowing the disease to spread further.
 
The news published on the date May 08, 2024 04:47 PM IST with headline  Think Gen Z has it too hard? Too easy? You're right is: 
 Gen Z faces difficulties other generations didn’t. (Source: Bloomberg/Getty Images North America) America has had a generation gap from the very start, and generational warfare for almost as long. But in at least one area, I believe a cease-fire is possible: We can end the war over which generation had it worse when they were young.With soaring rents, high mortgage rates, student loans and a ballooning national debt to pay for entitlements, Generation Z and many younger millennials say they are getting a raw deal. Older Americans, meanwhile, are sick of all the whining from entitled young coworkers who they see as slackers.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe truth is somewhere in between. It is getting a little easier for young people, at least economically. But that does not take away from the fact that getting a start in the world is hard. All sides have a point — and we’d be better off if we had more realistic expectations for ourselves and empathy for each other.In that spirit, and speaking as a very late Gen Xer — so late I don’t feel part of any generation — here goes: If you grew up watching shows such as Friends, you might expect your 20s to be the best time of your life. You get a fun job in the city, a great apartment and close friends. And it’s true that the first years of adulthood, free from responsibility and surrounded by your peers, is a special time. It is also a challenging time — and always has been.It’s not easy to establish a career. You don’t have any skills yet — except if you’re on the social media team, which wields a scary amount of power in every organization — so you are expendable, and must work many hours doing thankless tasks. But this is how you get good at what you do. It’s how you learn an industry and make connections. I am not going to argue that it is a pleasant process, though technology has made it a little easier.
 
The news published on the date May 08, 2024 04:03 PM IST with headline  Oil slides on rising US stock piles, strong dollar is: 
 Oil slides on rising US stock piles, strong dollar Oil prices fell on Wednesday as industry data showed a rise in crude and fuel inventories in the U.S. and as the U.S. dollar strengthened, signalling that demand for oil is coming under pressure.Brent crude oil futures fell $1.11, or 1.3%, to $82.05 a barrel by 0955 GMT. U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude futures fell $1.15, or 1.5%, to $77.23 a barrel.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBoth benchmarks fell marginally in the previous session on signs of easing supply tightness and weaker global oil demand from an EIA forecast report on Tuesday. [EIA/M]U.S. crude stocks rose by 509,000 barrels in the week ended May 3, market sources said, citing American Petroleum Institute figures. Gasoline and distillate fuel inventories also rose, they said."API numbers released overnight were moderately bearish due to stock builds in both crude and products… Concern over weaker-than-usual U.S. gasoline demand and this stock build have weighed on the prompt RBOB gasoline crack," ING analysts said in a client note.
 
The news published on the date May 08, 2024 03:59 PM IST with headline  Gold edges down as US dollar firms is: 
 Gold edges down as US dollar firms Gold prices edged lower on Wednesday as the U.S. dollar strengthened, more than offseting the support from the safe-haven demand fuelled by geopolitical risks.Spot gold fell 0.2% to $2,308.20 per ounce by 0934 GMT. U.S. gold futures eased 0.3% to $2,316.30 per ounce.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe U.S. dollar held firm, recouping some of the losses stemming from renewed bets on Federal Reserve rate cuts this year. A stronger dollar makes gold less attractive for other currency holders. [USD/]"The question is when will they (Fed) cut or will they cut this year at all, because as long as inflation is not really coming down further, the Fed is on hold," said Quantitative Commodity Research analyst Peter Fertig.Minneapolis Fed President Neel Kashkari said on Tuesday stalled inflation buoyed in part by housing market strength means the U.S. central bank may need to hold rates steady all year.
 
The news published on the date May 08, 2024 03:56 PM IST with headline  Rupee settles on flat note at 83.51 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee settles on flat note at 83.51 against US dollar The rupee settled for the day on a flat note at 83.51 (provisional) against the US dollar on Wednesday, as the support from easing crude oil prices was negated by strong dollar demand. Forex traders said a muted trend in domestic equities and significant foreign fund outflows dented investors' sentiments.At the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit traded in a narrow range. It opened at 83.50, and touched an intraday high of 83.49 and a low of 83.52 during the day. The local unit finally settled for the day at 83.51 (provisional), unchanged from its previous close. On Tuesday, the rupee closed at 83.51 against the American currency.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"The Indian rupee traded flat to negative on weak domestic markets and strong US dollar. FII outflows also weighed on the rupee. However, a decline in crude oil prices cushioned the downside," said Anuj Choudhary, Research Analyst, Sharekhan by BNP Paribas. "We expect the rupee to trade with a slight negative bias amid strength in the greenback and continued selling pressure by foreign investors. Positive global equities may support riskier currencies."Weakness in crude oil prices may support rupee at lower levels. USD-INR spot price is expected to trade in a range of Rs 83.30 to Rs 83.75," Choudhary added. Meanwhile, the dollar index, which gauges the greenback's strength against a basket of six currencies, was at 105.53, higher by 0.12 per cent as the US dollar gained on hawkish Fedspeak and geopolitical tensions in the Middle East.Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, fell 1.37 per cent to USD 82.02 per barrel. On the domestic equity market, the 30-share BSE Sensex fell 45.46 points, or 0.06 per cent to close at 73,466.39 points. The broader NSE Nifty settled flat at 22,302.50 points.
 
The news published on the date May 08, 2024 03:15 PM IST with headline  Crude oil futures decline on low demand is: 
 Crude oil futures decline on low demand Crude oil futures on Wednesday declined 1.73 per cent to Rs 6,471 per barrel as participants trimmed their positions on low demand.On the Multi Commodity Exchange, crude oil for May delivery fell Rs 114 or 1.73 per cent to Rs 6,471 per barrel with a business volume of 11,948 lots.Story continues below AdvertisementGlobally, West Texas Intermediate crude oil traded 1.38 per cent lower at USD 77.30 per barrel, while Brent crude was trading 1.27 per cent lower at USD 82.10 per barrel in New York. PTI SGC D
 
The news published on the date May 08, 2024 03:11 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Bull in a China shop is: 
 China economy Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Chinese economy has garnered attention for unfavourable reasons, particularly following the turbulence in the real estate sector. Now entering its fourth year, the real estate crisis persists, marked by liquidity challenges, developer defaults, and a notable 30 percent decline in the government's land sales revenue.Despite these hurdles, Chinese markets have exhibited robust performance compared to most other developing markets in the past two months. Since reaching its low in early February, the index has surged by 16 percent. This prompts an enquiry into whether underlying fundamentals are propelling the Chinese markets or if we are witnessing a recovery rally.An examination of China's economic indicators reveals that despite the enduring strain on real estate, the Chinese economy expanded by 5.3 per cent in the first quarter. This growth is significant, considering that over a quarter of the economy (real estate) is not contributing to the GDP. Such figures from the world's second-largest economy carry credibility.
 
The news published on the date May 08, 2024 03:05 PM IST with headline  European stocks rise, dollar climbs as Fed rate path pondered is: 
 European stocks rise, dollar climbs as Fed rate path pondered European stocks rose on Wednesday, boosted by company earnings, while U.S. futures were flat and the dollar climbed as investors assessed the signals on the path for Federal Reserve interest rates.The yen fell even with the threat of currency intervention from Japanese authorities to support it. Oil prices wallowed near two-month lows.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEurope's continent-wide Stoxx 600 index rose 0.32% on Wednesday, supported by upbeat earnings reports, after rising 1.1% the previous day. Germany's DAX climbed 0.45% and Britain's FTSE 100 rose 0.35%.Global stocks fell sharply in April as strong U.S. economic data caused investors to rein in their bets on rate cuts from the Fed and, by extension, other major central banks this year.But they have rallied again in May, partly encouraged by Friday's nonfarm payrolls jobs report, which showed a cooling in the hot U.S. labour market.
 
The news published on the date May 08, 2024 03:02 PM IST with headline  National Statistical Commission gets a new lease of life, govt appoints 2 members is: 
 The Rangarajan Commission had suggested creation of NSC in 2005 The National Statistical Commission (NSC), lying defunct for a year, is getting ready for action with the appointment of all five members, while a committee reviews the way it collects data and suggests changes, if needed, to methodology, a senior official has told Moneycontrol.Constituted in 2006, NSC is a government-funded advisory body on statistical matters. It had been barely functioning as the government didn’t name new independent members. NSC needs five members, including a chairperson, to function. Since 2022-23, only NSC had only three members.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“The National Statistics Commission will now be reformed with a well-defined role with resources,” the official said. This is being done to improve the credibility of India’s statistical system, he added.Debasis Kundu and A Ganesh Kumar have been named the new members of NSC, which is chaired by Rajeeva Laxman Karandikar. Mukesh Mohania and Asit Kumar Sandhu are the other members.Steering Committee
 
The news published on the date May 08, 2024 03:50 PM IST with headline  Arthur Laffer: ‘I made a vow that I would never, ever work for a government again’ is: 
 - Chris GilesFew economists have a curve named after themselves. One of the exceptions, Arthur Laffer, is best known for the moment in 1974 when he drew a line on a napkin, highlighting the relationship between tax rates and revenues.The Laffer curve is not itself controversial, highlighting merely that a zero tax rate will collect no revenue as will a 100 per cent tax rate because the taxed activity will cease.Disputes about tax policy arise in practice ove
 
The news published on the date May 08, 2024 12:12 PM IST with headline  Fitch sees Indian rupee rebounding to 82 per dollar on bond inflows is: 
 Fitch’s estimate for the rupee is stronger than the median estimate of 83 per dollar in a Bloomberg survey. The potential big foreign inflows into Indian bonds will help the rupee recover from near a record low, but the nation’s central bank is likely to limit the extent of gains, according to Fitch Ratings.The rupee is expected to appreciate to 82 per dollar by the year-end, from about 83.50 currently, Jeremy Zook, a director at Fitch in Hong Kong, said in an interview last week. The Reserve Bank of India may continue to prevent any sharp swings in the currency by absorbing inflows, he said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndia’s bond market is likely to see additional inflows of as much as $30 billion after the nation’s inclusion in JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s emerging market index starting in June. The flows will test the RBI’s tight grip on the rupee that helped limit volatility in the currency and aided the nation’s export competitiveness.Even though the currency touched a record low of 83.58 against the dollar in April, it has outperformed emerging Asia peers this year, boosting its appeal for investors.“India does seem pretty well poised with bond index inclusion and flows that should be coming in the second half of the year,” said Zook, who has worked at the US Treasury Department and the International Monetary Fund in the past. “The RBI has large external reserve buffers and a modest current-account deficit at this point in time.”
 
The news published on the date May 08, 2024 10:36 AM IST with headline  Joe Biden has to find a way to convince Americans on the economy is: 
 Why, given this apparently impressive record, are so many voters so sceptical? Martin WolfDonald Trump’s plans for a second term are those of a dictator. This desire was already evident from his attempt to overthrow the result of the last presidential election and insistence that the Big Lie that he won become the Big Truth of the Republican party. Beyond that, he has recently told Time that he would build vast detention camps for undocumented immigrants, deploy the US army domestically, order US attorneys to prosecute people he dislikes
 
The news published on the date May 08, 2024 09:07 AM IST with headline  Doing a service to India’s exports growth is: 
 Representative image HighlightsIndia’s services exports have shown signs of softness in recent timesExperts upbeat about the overall potential of services exportsWeak global growth can hurt the momentum in services exportsThe advent of AI and the tendency of “near-shoring” are the other imponderablesWith a huge low-skilled labour pool, India has to frame a strategy that encourages both goods and services export
 
The news published on the date May 08, 2024 08:35 AM IST with headline  Decoding Economics: US Fed paper says inequality increases financial vulnerability is: 
 The Fed researchers are not the first to point to inequalities resulting in the building up of financial sector vulnerabilities A debate on inequality has been spurred in India by the publication of a paper by the World Inequality Lab’s Thomas Piketty et al on what they call a ‘Billionaire Raj’. While the paper has, on the one hand, led to instant demands for wealth redistribution, on the other it has led to a quick dismissal by others.Several economists disputed the authors’ methodology, while others said that inequality didn’t matter as long as poverty was coming down
 
The news published on the date May 07, 2024 04:07 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | A welcome pause is: 
 Benchmark indices have taken a breather amid tensions in the Middle East and fears that US interest rates will remain elevated for a longer period. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Nifty 50 index is little changed since the beginning of the current earnings season and is up just 3 percent over its January 1, 2024 level. Benchmark indices have taken a breather amid a flare-up of tensions in the Middle East and also due to fears that US interest rates will remain elevated for a longer period.Importantly, the benchmark index is receiving lacklustre support from earnings. Halfway through the results season, the Nifty has seen no noticeable earnings upgrades. Aggregate earnings estimates of Nifty 50 companies are unchanged. “The lack of earnings buoyancy in Q4 FY24 has resulted in a limited earnings upgrade in recent months,” Kotak Institutional Equities said in an update.Aggregate net profits of 28 Nifty companies that have released their results till now have exceeded analyst estimates. Even so, aggregate figures mask the inconsistencies among index constituents.
 
The news published on the date May 07, 2024 11:58 AM IST with headline  Xi is probing for cracks in the EU and NATO is: 
 China badly wants to disrupt the unity of both Nato and the EU. Gideon Rachman Who is Xi Jinping’s travel agent? If you are making your first trip to Europe in nearly five years, an itinerary that reads France, Serbia, Hungary seems a little eccentric.But the three stops chosen by China’s leader make perfect sense viewed from Beijing. For strategic and economic reasons, China badly wants to disrupt the unity of both Nato and the EU. Each of the three countries that Xi is visiting is seen as a potential leve
 
The news published on the date May 07, 2024 11:35 AM IST with headline  Bank of England should tailgate the ECB, not the Fed is: 
 Time to prepare the ground for a cut in interest rates. (Source: Bloomberg) The Bank of England's policy meeting on Thursday is unlikely to deliver any change in monetary policy — but that doesn't make it unimportant. Policymakers are likely to prepare the ground for a 25 basis-point cut from 5.25 percent at their June 20 meeting, adopting the playbook the European Central Bank established by using its April 11 meeting to effectively promise a reduction in euro rates next month.While central bank moves aren’t coordinated, they prefer not to operate in isolation. The ECB’s anticipated move on June 6, with even the hawkish members of its Governing Council falling into line, will provide useful cover for a BOE easing a fortnight later. This week sees a quarterly UK monetary policy review that’s expected to include downward revisions to the central bank’s inflation forecasts, bolstering the argument for lower rates.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRelentless US economic strength has diminished the likelihood of Federal Reserve action. The futures market now anticipates only two quarter-point rate cuts this year, down from six at the start of January, and no change expected next month. What happens in the US doesn’t just stay there; traders have scaled back expectations for how aggressive central banks elsewhere will be in relaxing monetary conditions. UK interest rates are now expected to be cut by just 50 basis points by December, down from the 150 basis points expected at the start of the year. A BOE move next month is a coin toss, while an ECB reduction is all but a certainty. Wednesday's less hawkish Fed meeting, with Chair Jerome Powell maintaining a bias to ease and calling a hike unlikely, makes it easier for both the ECB and BOE to go first.The BOE is pushing back against this more hawkish market pricing, according to Bloomberg Economics. There's been a subtle shift in BOE rhetoric pointing out that the UK shares more similarities with the euro economy than the US. Deputy Governor Dave Ramsden has made a noticeable switch to the dovish side, as he sees domestic pressures “receding”. He may vote for a rate cut this week, if his April 19 remarks describing “the UK as less of an outlier and more of a laggard” are taken at face value. That would put him alongside dove Swati Dhingra, who’s voted repeatedly for lower rates, producing a 7-2 split for unchanged rates on Thursday but giving an indication that momentum is shifting toward easing.Three hawkish external members of the Monetary Policy Committee — Jonathan Haskel, Catherine Mann and Megan Greene — still appearresistant to cutting rates any time soon; but a majority of the nine-member panel would probably swing behind Governor Andrew Bailey, who has carefully steered forward guidance toward a relaxation of the BOE’s stance, once he’s ready to cut. The UK tipped into recession in the second half of 2023; though there are promising signs of a modest recovery, borrowing costs need to come down to foster the rebound.
 
The news published on the date May 07, 2024 10:51 AM IST with headline  India's April fuel use rises 6.1% year-on-year is: 
 India's April fuel use rises 6.1% year-on-year India's fuel consumption, a proxy for oil demand, rose by 6.1% year-on-year to 19.858 million metric tons in April, data from the Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC) of the oil ministry showed on Tuesday
 
The news published on the date May 07, 2024 10:26 AM IST with headline  Behind the Hong Kong market’s fast and mysterious rally is: 
 Is this bull market for real? It’s a trillion-dollar question. All of a sudden, the mood in Hong Kong seems to have shifted. The $5.2trillion stock market is on its longest winning streak since 2018, with Chinese technology giants Tencent Holdings Ltd and Alibaba Group Holding Ltd among the top contributors. Notably, the sharp advance took place in the first few days of May, when mainland bourses were closed for public holidays and Chinese investors were away. It was a clear sign that foreigners were the buyers.Is this bull market for real? It’s a trillion-dollar question.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTwo fears — of getting caught and of missing out — are driving this rally.First, coming into May, investors were heavily exposed to Japan and Taiwan, a chip proxy. They were by far the most-loved markets in Asia, even more than a fast-growing India, according to the latest Bank of America Merrill Lynch fund managers’ survey. Sector-wise, a whopping 60 percent were net overweight semiconductor companies.But as the earnings season unfolded and Japan’s golden week holiday approached, asset managers started having second thoughts. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co on April 18 cast doubt over investors’ bullish view that big tech’s AI infrastructure spending alone could propel a chip upcycle. During its earnings call, TSMC, the world’s largest maker of advanced chips, scaled back its outlook, citing weak smartphone and personal-computing demand. Foreign money promptly fled Taipei.
 
The news published on the date May 07, 2024 09:18 AM IST with headline  Trading lessons from Mexico for these turbulent times is: 
 - Most traders would have realized how difficult it is becoming to garner trading profits of late. Markets are making sudden outsized moves and weeks of accumulated traded profits disappear in a single session. This lends credence to the old Wall Street saying – a trading profit is the most difficult “easy money” you will ever make.This was before overseas high frequency trading (HFT), artificial intelligence (AI), algorithms, dark pool and vulture traders set up shop in Indi
 
The news published on the date May 07, 2024 09:10 AM IST with headline  A new US-Saudi deal could change power equations in the Middle East is: 
 - HighlightsUS-Saudi deal in the works on trade and defence would impact power dynamics in the Middle EastUS needs an alliance with Saudi to reduce China’s influence in the regionOutcome of the deal would depend on how path to Palestine state is forgedFor Saudis, the deal with US helps Riyadh to maintain an upper hand with IranChina has been increasing its influence in Middle East through big investments, and was key to broker peace between Iran and SaudiChina’
 
The news published on the date May 07, 2024 09:04 AM IST with headline  Why virtual influencers are a hot property among brands is: 
 In India, however, we do not see many virtual influencers as yet. It is perhaps because flesh and blood people -even mythological characters depicted by humans carry more credibility Thanks to social media everyone has become an influencer. Some do it consciously, others by default. Every post on Instagram, Facebook, ‘X’, TikTok, LinkedIn or even WhatsApp have the potential of becoming viral or, in the least, gathering traction that goes beyond the primary universe of the originator. This has given birth to a cottage industry of content creators. In its recent issue, the Harvard Business Review says over 300 million people globally consider themselves content creator
 
The news published on the date May 07, 2024 08:56 AM IST with headline  Long-term reforms a must to set right onion economy is: 
 The food processing ministry needs to actively promote dehydrated onions (flake, powder, granules) to which consumers can turn to during the lean season HighlightsGovernment announced two measures that could have offsetting impacts on onion prices40 percent export duty may hinder exports but removal of restrictions may boost onion exportsThe move seems to be an attempt to please all sections of the economyLong-term solution is to reform and fix the farm-to-fork channel, promote dehydrated onions during lean time
 
The news published on the date May 07, 2024 08:46 AM IST with headline  RBI’s draft norms remind banks of building an umbrella for credit risk is: 
 RBI tightens norms on project financing HighlightsDraft norms propose increase in provisions for exposure to under-construction projectsBanks’ credit costs are at all-time lows, profitability strong in FY24The RBI wants banks to beef up insurance for bad times during the current good timesBanks can accommodate the additional provisions, though margins may get hit slightlyAlternative of tighter norms is under-pricing of credit risk and sudden increase in provisions due to bad loan
 
The news published on the date May 07, 2024 08:42 AM IST with headline  Chart of the Day: April thermal power plant utilisation levels highest in 13 years is: 
 Thermal power generation grew by 9 percent for the fourth consecutive month in April 2024 High temperatures and rising electricity usage are driving up the utilisation levels of thermal power plants. In April 2024, these utilisation levels rose to 76.8 percent. The last time thermal power plants operated at such utilisation levels in April was in 2011. See chart.Electricity offtake has been strong this year. Thermal power generation grew by 9 percent for the fourth consecutive month in April 2024. Utilisation consistently remained above 70 percent January-April thi
 
The news published on the date May 06, 2024 10:34 PM IST with headline  Gold gains on soft dollar, rate cut hopes is: 
 Gold gains on soft dollar, rate cut hopes Gold prices climbed more than 1% on Monday, as the U.S. dollar weakened after softer-than-expected U.S. jobs data fueled expectations of potential interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve later this year.Spot gold rose 0.8% to $2,320.95 per ounce by 1503 GMT. U.S. gold futures for June delivery also gained 0.9% to $2,329.70 per ounce.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"The downside that we've seen over the last few weeks might actually be running out of steam, opening (the) door for gold prices to resume their upward trajectory," said Daniel Ghali, commodity strategist at TD Securities.Bullion lost about 1.5% last week.Data on Friday showed job growth in the U.S. slowed more than expected in April, while the increase in annual wages fell below 4.0% for the first time in nearly three years.
 
The news published on the date May 06, 2024 10:20 PM IST with headline  Dollar weaker on renewed Fed rate cut hopes; yen wobbles is: 
 Dollar weaker on renewed Fed rate cut hopes; yen wobbles The dollar index was lower on Monday for a fourth straight session as a softer-than-expected U.S. jobs report last week supported recent comments from Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell, but the greenback strengthened against the yen after last week's suspected interventions.The dollar index, which measures the greenback against a basket of major currencies, was on track for its longest streak of declines since early March. Friday's U.S. payrolls report showed the smallest jobs gain since October, easing concerns the Fed would have to keep rates higher for longer.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe data helped affirm comments from Powell after the Fed's policy statement on Wednesday that rate increases remained unlikely.The economic calendar is light this week, highlighted by the consumer sentiment reading from the University of Michigan on Friday, while a host of Fed officials are due to speak, including Richmond Fed President Thomas Barkin and New York President John Williams on Monday."It will (stay weaker) as long as the data stays conducive to that and as long as those Fed speakers don't rebut Jay Powell, but I have a feeling that some of them will," said Thierry Wizman, global FX and rates strategist at Macquarie in New York.
 
The news published on the date May 06, 2024 08:21 PM IST with headline  All GST collections pocketed by Centre is a myth: FM Sitharaman is: 
 Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman It is a myth that all Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections are pocketed by the Centre as GST contributes significantly to revenues with the states’ actual revenue amounting to Rs 46.56 lakh crore from FY19- FY24, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on May 6.“Without GST, states' revenue from subsumed taxes from FY 18-19 to 2023-24 would have been Rs. 37.5 lakh crore. With GST, states' actual revenue amounted to Rs. 46.56 lakh crore,” Sitharaman stated on microblogging site X.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSitharaman’s post came after the gross GST collections crossed a landmark of Rs 2 lakh crore in April due to heightened economic activity.States receive 100 percent of SGST collected in that state and approximately 50 percent of IGST (i.e. on inter-state trade). A significant portion of Central GST, i.e., 42 percent, is devolved to the states based on the Finance Commission's recommendations.The Goods and Services Tax (GST) has improved tax buoyancy, which has increased to 1.22 (2018-23) from 0.72 (pre-GST) and thus has also improved the revenue for states despite the end of the five-year compensation period, she said.
 
The news published on the date May 06, 2024 07:59 PM IST with headline  India's 6-week long national election leaves RBI with liquidity dilemma is: 
 Unlike bank FDs, DICGC does not cover corporate FDs with deposit insurance of Rs 5 lakh. The Reserve Bank of India is stepping in to ease banking system liquidity conditions as a national election that stretches over six weeks is hurting government spending despite strong tax collections.Voting in India's national elections began on April 19 and will conclude on June 1, with counting on June 4. Typically, government spending slows during polls and picks up only after a new government is in place and a budget is presented.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn Friday, the government announced a surprise buyback of bonds worth Rs 40,000 crore, which will infuse funds into the banking system. Yields on bonds maturing in 2-5 years fell 3-5 basis points on Monday. Longer-term yields also cooled.The buyback of securities is a liquidity injecting tool, and will help in easing liquidity in the system, a source familiar with the government's thinking said.India's average banking system liquidity has been in deficit since April 20 and is expected stay in deficit or close to neutral this month, according to economists.
 
The news published on the date May 06, 2024 03:57 PM IST with headline  Rupee falls 5 paise to close at 83.50 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee falls 5 paise to close at 83.50 against US dollar The rupee pared its initial gains and settled for the day 5 paise lower at 83.50 (provisional) against the US dollar, weighed down by elevated crude oil prices.Forex traders said a weak trend in domestic equities also dented investor sentiments.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange, the local unit opened at 83.43, then touched an intra-day high of 83.42 and a low of 83.50 against the greenback. The rupee finally settled at 83.50 (provisional) against dollar, registering a fall of 5 paise over its previous close.On Friday, the rupee inched up 1 paisa to settle at 83.45 against the US dollar.Forex traders said US dollar demand from importers and a recovery in crude oil prices weighed on the rupee.
 
The news published on the date May 06, 2024 03:23 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Where will the money come from? is: 
 If wealth creation is the name of the game, should it get a higher share of the pie? Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWith a mere stroke of a pen, a government can make investors wealthier or poorer. Making long term capital gains tax-free, then bringing it back, the imposition and hiking of the securities transaction tax, are events that have had far-reaching implications for Indian traders and investors. Of course, policy actions in other areas such as the more recent slashing of corporate tax rates or the liberalisation wave of the nineties have been market-moving events too, but here we are talking about measures directly concerning investors.Every budget, there is that inevitable speculation on whether the capital gains tax on stocks will see any change. Budget 2023 ticked that box by making capital in fixed income mutual fund schemes taxable as short-term capital gains. That meant no indexation and no 20 percent rate either. Gains would get added to income and taxed at the marginal tax rate just like your fixed deposit interest, irrespective of tenure.But last Friday’s (May 3) events were intriguing. It followed speculation that once voted back, the government would commence work on a list of priority areas relating to tax, one of which was a relook at the capital gains tax.
 
The news published on the date May 06, 2024 02:59 PM IST with headline  Gold futures rise Rs 362 to Rs 71,030 per 10 gm is: 
 Gold futures rise Rs 362 to Rs 71,030 per 10 gm Gold price on Monday rose Rs 362 to Rs 71,030 per 10 grams in futures trade as speculators created fresh positions on a firm spot demand. On the Multi Commodity Exchange, gold contracts for June delivery traded higher Rs 362 or 0.51 per cent at Rs 71,030 per 10 grams in a business turnover of 18,568 lots.Fresh positions built up by participants led to a rise in gold prices, analysts said. Globally, gold futures went up 0.59 per cent at USD 2,322.30 per ounce in New York.Story continues below AdvertisementAccording to Rahul Kalantri, Vice President- Commodities at Mehta Equities Ltd, "Gold… showed very high volatility and recovered from lows after downbeat US job data but unable to hold its gains due to easing geo-political tensions. The dollar index and the US bond yields also slipped from their highs after disappointing US data and supporting the precious metal.
 
The news published on the date May 06, 2024 02:29 PM IST with headline  Indian airlines to have 50% market share in international passenger traffic by FY'28: CRISIL is: 
 Indian airlines to have 50% market share in international passenger traffic by FY'28: CRISIL As much as half of the country's international air passenger traffic is expected to be catered by Indian airlines by financial year 2027-28, credit ratings agency CRISIL said on Monday.The share of Indian airlines in international passenger traffic, including originating or terminating as well as the traffic transitioning through the country, is seen surging 700 basis points to around 50 per cent by 2027-28, from 43 per cent in the previous fiscal, it said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe improvement would be driven by Indian airlines deploying additional aircraft and adding new routes in the international segment, as well as their inherent advantage of superior domestic connectivity compared with foreign carriers, CRISIL Ratings said in its report.The report noted that business profiles of Indian carriers will strengthen as a result of their rising share in international traffic, which is more profitable than the domestic segment.India's international passenger traffic grew to around 70 million in fiscal 2024, from a low of 10 million in pandemic-hit fiscal 2021, and has surpassed the pre-pandemic level, according to CRISIL.
 
The news published on the date May 06, 2024 01:11 PM IST with headline  India bond buyback signals RBI’s cash easing stance, Citi says is: 
 India bond buyback signals RBI’s cash easing stance, Citi says India’s unexpected move to buy back bonds signals the central bank is getting proactive in easing liquidity and may switch to a neutral interest-rate stance in its June policy, according to Citigroup Inc.The Reserve Bank of India on Friday said it would buy back 400 billion rupees ($4.8 billion) of bonds — all maturing in the current fiscal year ending March — on May 9. The announcement, indicating a shift from the RBI’s earlier strategy of keeping liquidity tight, comes as a surprise as cash conditions slightly improved in April.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIt “is a clear signal that the RBI has moved away from the approach of keeping the overnight rates closer to the Marginal Standing Facility rate,” economists including Samiran Chakraborty and Baqar M Zaidi wrote in a note. “On the margin, this buttresses our view of a possible move to ‘neutral’ in June.”India bonds rallied in early trade Monday, with the 10-year yields falling to the lowest level in about four weeks.
 
The news published on the date May 06, 2024 12:08 PM IST with headline  A warning from the breakdown nations is: 
 The takeaway here is that hidden traps line the path of development and can spring on nations at every income level from the middle to the rich. Ruchir SharmaThe writer is chair of Rockefeller International.At a time when two big economies, the US and India, are attracting a lot of hype for their enduring strength, it is worth looking at nations that not too long ago were billed as star performers but are now breaking down. All are among the world’s 50 largest economies and, so far this decade, have suffered both a sharp decline in real per capita income growth, and a fal
 
The news published on the date May 06, 2024 11:54 AM IST with headline  Chart of the Day | Global food inflation continues to inch up is: 
 - It’s the second consecutive month that global food prices edged up, with the FAO’s Food Price Index rising by 0.3 percent in April over the previous month. It is still down by 7.4 percent over a year ago, however. The cereal sub-index rose mainly due to firm maize and barley prices, while wheat prices were stable. Rice price quotations declined.(image) Vegetable oil prices also rose during the month, but this was mainly due to higher sunflower an
 
The news published on the date May 06, 2024 11:58 AM IST with headline  The Eastern Window: Can Xi Jinping really persuade Europe to be less dependent on US? is: 
 Whether or not Xi compromises his position on Russia is something that will be closely watched in India HighlightsXi Jinping reaches Paris as part of his three-country tour of EuropeHe is set on exploiting the differences within EU about how to deal with China Xi will face resistance about supporting Russia and enabling it to fight Ukraine The question is whether he can persuade some European countries to be less reliant on the US Chinese President Xi Jinping is trying to challenge what is regarded as the dominant influence of the United States on Europe. He reached Pari
 
The news published on the date May 06, 2024 10:34 AM IST with headline  Next five years for India going to be of economic stability coupled with volatility, says J Sai Deepak is: 
 Next five years for India going to be of economic stability coupled with volatility, says J Sai Deepak The next five years for India are going to be of economic stability coupled with volatility on different fronts, a prominent Supreme Court advocate has said, observing that the country's growth story will be impeded by law and order issues if the government doesn't come out with a mechanism to deal with the street warfare."I think the economic success of Bharat is a foregone conclusion for multiple factors, and I'm not being overconfident here. There is a hunger for economic growth within the population, which is significantly driving the India story," J Sai Deepak, who is also a popular public speaker among the BJP's support base, told PTI in an interview here.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThis hunger coupled with the enabling factors that the government has decided to create, in terms of a conducive atmosphere, will certainly help the growth story, he said."But the growth story will be impeded by law-and-order issues if the government doesn't come out with a mechanism to deal with the revised form of street warfare that we have been witnessing over the last five years. That's not unique to India. The strategy seems to have been employed across the world. I don't think the way of the future is the kind of terrorist attacks that you saw maybe in the last 20 or 25 years, you're going to be looking at a lot of urban warfare," he said."That's how experts call it, where streets are occupied and you're not dealing with an organised set of people in terms of a core group, but where they choose to unleash a larger mob, an indeterminate unidentifiable mob. That kind of mob warfare, I think India needs to get ready for because if it doesn't, the experiment of at least two of those protests between 2019 and 2024 will be replicated at a larger scale," he said.
 
The news published on the date May 06, 2024 09:27 AM IST with headline  The G7 coal pledge means little for global climate fight is: 
 By referring to “unabated” coal, the communique allows countries to use the fossil fuel past 2035 if their carbon pollution is captured before entering the atmosphere. (Representative image) HighlightsG7 sets deadline for scrapping coal-fired power plantsThe communique includes caveats, giving leeway to member nationsCoal-fired power is less than 5 percent for four G7 countriesG7 focuses only on coal and doesn’t recognise the harmful effects of gasThe G7 pledge can put pressure on India and the developing worldG7 must stick to the principle of CBDR and act accordingl
 
The news published on the date May 06, 2024 08:04 AM IST with headline  India suspends tariffs on Australian chickpeas, Grains Australia says is: 
 India suspends tariffs on Australian chickpeas, Grains Australia says India has suspended tariffs on Australian Desi chickpeas, industry body Grains Australia said on Monday, potentially reviving a trade worth hundreds of millions of dollars a year before the tariffs were imposed."At the weekend the Indian government suspended the tariffs that had been equivalent to about 66%, with the decision effective until March 31, 2025," Grains Australia said
 
The news published on the date May 04, 2024 06:42 PM IST with headline  Daily Voice: These top three themes to make India's economic outlook brighter, DBS Bank's ED is: 
 Radhika Rao is the Executive Director and Senior Economist at DBS Bank Radhika Rao, Executive Director and Senior Economist at DBS Bank believes three themes – boosting cyclical momentum, maintaining the capex drive, and ensuring continuity in governance/reform agenda - will make economic outlook brighter for India.Maintaining the reform agenda by the government, which is one of the three themes, is crucial for economic growth, she feels. A host of reform building blocks have been undertaken by the government in the past six years – plumbing, lower costs, monetary policy, and addressing legacy baggage.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn the Fed fund rate cut, Radhika Rao said with growth and inflation both running above trend, it would become increasingly hard for the Fed to cut month after month. "Our baseline assumption is for 50 basis point cuts in 2H-2024 by the Fed subject to the evolving economic conditions."Which are the top three themes on your radar that will make India's economic outlook brighter?We would classify these themes into 3 Cs – boosting cyclical momentum, maintaining the capex drive, and ensuring continuity in the governance/reform agenda. Boosting cyclical momentum will require authorities to support the manufacturing push, generating sufficient employment to absorb the economy’s demographic dividend. Additionally, stronger revenue generation can be geared towards continuing to improve the quality of expenditure, which will carry tangible benefits for the economy.
 
The news published on the date May 06, 2024 03:01 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Weekender | The growth-rate cut switcheroo is: 
 - Dear Reader,The odds of rapid rate cuts by the US Federal Reserve have diminished considerably in the past few months. That should have been a severe disappointment for markets, especially US markets, but as on May 2, MSCI USA was still up a decent 6 percent year to date.What gives? Well, the same thing that is keeping inflation elevated is fuelling market hopes — stronger growth. That’s seen from the latest JP Morgan Global Manufacturing Purchasing Manager
 
The news published on the date May 03, 2024 06:02 PM IST with headline  The Reading List: May 3, 2024 is: 
 A selection of articles from the world of economy, business and finance. In a world strapped for time, we thought you may find it useful to have a selection of articles we read this past week. As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. Occasionally, we may stray from these subjects.These links may be from external websites we frequent o
 
The news published on the date May 03, 2024 04:31 PM IST with headline  Business in the Week Ahead: May 6-10 is: 
 The US Federal Reserve held on May 1 citing limited progress on the inflation objective (to attain the 2 percent target). The comments leave the timing of a rate cut in doubt. Next week the central banks of Australia and the United Kingdom (UK) will decide on interest rates separately. Similar to the US Federal Reserve, the Reserve Bank of Australi
 
The news published on the date May 03, 2024 03:34 PM IST with headline  Biden, BP and the high-stakes sequel to deepwater horizon is: 
 More American oil is really bad news for the cartel. A few years before going down in flames and infamy, the Deepwater Horizon semi-submersible oil rig made a sensational discovery.In August 2006, the craft — which was on a mission for the UK petroleum giant BP Plc — was drilling in the bottom of the Gulf of Mexico when it found an enormous accumulation of oil buried so deep that no one had looked there before.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThat new oilfield, named Kaskida, was both stunning and unattractive. It contained billions of dollars worth of petroleum, but the technology needed to develop it didn’t exist. The oil wasn’t just far beneath the sea. It was under a thick layer of salt and under such high pressure and temperature that it would gush out into the seabed if tapped. Nothing at the time could have contained it.Risk was everywhere. Just four years after finding Kaskida, the Deepwater Horizon rig exploded while drilling another well at the Macondo site. The resulting fire killed 11 workers. The largest oil spill in US history would eventually go Hollywood as a blockbuster disaster movie and cost BP more than $65 billion in clean-up cost and penalties.In the wake of the catastrophe, Kaskida was all but forgotten. The oil spill essentially closed off the gulf to advanced exploration. Some companies continued to open oilfields, but without innovative engineering. The result was stagnation. Today, the part of the gulf under US jurisdiction produces less oil than it did in the months before the 2010 spill — a sharp contrast with the rest of America where output has boomed thanks to the advent of shale. No one wanted to risk the potentially litigious challenges that came with pioneer work in the gulf, certainly not BP.
 
The news published on the date May 03, 2024 03:00 PM IST with headline  Not even Elon Musk can doom the EV charger network is: 
 Tesla has been necessary for kick-starting electric-vehicle adoption in the US. But the company is not necessary for its future success. Elon Musk may not like to talk about this, but Tesla Inc probably wouldn’t be one of the world’s biggest automakers today if not for a $465 million US government loan at a make-or-break phase in the company’s development. Tesla went on to repay the loan nine years early on the way to briefly having a market value of more than $1 trillion.The lesson here is that sometimes a new enterprise needs a helping hand from a bigger player but can eventually thrive on its own. Musk is about to play a role in another demonstration of that lesson, but this time as the bigger player: Tesla has been necessary for kick-starting electric-vehicle adoption in the US. But the company is not necessary for its future success.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTesla recently gutted the team managing its fleet of fast-charging Superchargers, and Musk said on his personal-grievance platform X that the company would grow the network “at a slower pace,” with “more focus on 100% uptime and expansion of existing locations.”If you think fighting climate change is the same thing as wanting communism, then you could do worse for capitalism’s cause than driving a Cybertuck-sized hole in President Joe Biden’s plans to install 500,000 new EV chargers by 2030. If you are the CEO of an EV maker, on the other hand, then such a move is simply confusing.Maybe Musk rethought the wisdom of sharing his charging infrastructure with other automakers, a commitment that drew praise from Biden, who broke his alleged personal taboo against publicly saying “Tesla.” Maybe Musk doubts BloombergNEF’s estimate that Tesla could turn an annual Supercharger profit of $740 million by 2030. Maybe he doesn’t have time to wait to cut costs, given how bad the company’s results are and how EV sales growth is cooling. Maybe he wants to sacrifice huge slabs of Tesla’s car business at the altar of the sacred robotaxi. Maybe he was just mad at (now former) Supercharger chief Rebecca Tinucci.
 
The news published on the date May 03, 2024 06:00 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Growing bread and butter is: 
 Big private sector banks are facing both regulatory raps and uncertainty around top management. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdKotak Mahindra Bank has dropped its bread one too many times and it has been landing on the buttered side, as it always does. First, the bank got pulled up by the regulator for inadequate digital infrastructure and its long-time executive KVS Manian quit just weeks after he was promoted to be joint managing director. All this while a new chief has just begun to get adjusted to the chair at the bank.The bank stares at a blow to its main bread and butter, getting customers to borrow and deposit, since it cannot do so through its digital channels. A similar blow was meted out to HDFC Bank and then to Bajaj Finance. Fintech poster boy Paytm’s payments bank lost its entire loaf of bread due to regulatory wrath. The regulator is seemingly harsh, but lenders aren’t behaving either as we wrote here.But we are not here to lament on the Reserve Bank of India’s punishments or even about how tardy some of financial entities seem to be in sprucing up their compliance. This is more about coming out of crisis and saving your bread and butter, and eventually getting back to growing it.
 
The news published on the date May 03, 2024 02:21 PM IST with headline  FinMin reviews bankruptcy proceedings of Jaiprakash Associates, Arch Pharma Labs, other high-profile cases is: 
 The current time taken for companies to get admission under IBC is 400-600 days which erodes the value of assets. The Finance Ministry has reviewed some high-profile cases pending for admission into the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). Among the companies discussed was Jaiprakash Associates, which have seen delays in admission under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC). The case has been awaiting admission since 2022.The meeting was held on April 30, chaired by Financial Services Secretary Vivek Joshi.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdJoshi asked banks to move forward in declaring defaults, so that the companies can move towards the resolution process, two sources said.“Do not hesitate to declare defaults and go for IBC resolution,” Joshi reportedly said at the meeting.“There was a review meeting to discuss pending cases that are yet to go through IBC, with the highest exposure in terms of monies involved and stakeholders. It included Jaiprakash Associates, which has Rs 37,273 crroe debt exposure in ICICI Bank and others. The meeting deliberated upon the delays in admission under the IBC for resolution,” one of the sources told Moneycontrol.
 
The news published on the date May 03, 2024 10:58 AM IST with headline  Mohamed El-Erian: Jay Powell’s dovishness is right, but not for the reasons he believes is: 
 Some of Powell’s press conference remarks in the past have been more dovish than the actual committee discussions on policy. To the surprise of many, Federal Reserve chair Jay Powell struck a decidedly dovish tone in his press conference on Wednesday. This came immediately following the issuance of the central bank’s periodic policy statement in which the wording on inflation was hardened by stating that “in recent months, there has been a lack of further progress towards the committee’s 2 per cent inflation objective”.I suspect that Powell’s rather relaxed dismissal of sticky inflation will prove appropriate, bu
 
The news published on the date May 03, 2024 08:15 AM IST with headline  Is a FinTech, finance or technology entity? is: 
 The question arises whether fintech firms should expect regulators to confer upon them the status of mainstream financial institutions, such as banks HighlightsFintech firms combine financial services and technology to deliver better solutions to consumersRegulator reforms, public digital infrastructure have enabled Indian fintech firms to evolve and grow rapidlyRegulators want pragmatism, efficient risk management and discipline from financial entities more than innovationBanks are increasingly prioritizing digital investments and tie-ups with fintechs to serve customersFintech firms can also evolve as future competition to bank
 
The news published on the date May 03, 2024 08:10 AM IST with headline  Inheritance tax is not anti-wealth creation is: 
 A well-designed inheritance or estate tax, with appropriate thresholds and exceptions (farm holdings can be exempted to prevent sub-division of holdings, for example) may well deter property hoarding by wealthy Indians HighlightsFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said an inheritance tax hits the middle class badlyInheritance tax is similar to capital gains tax in that it taxes unearned incomeUK has 40 percent estate tax and this has not deterred wealth creation over thereMore than Britishers, immigrants have piled on assets despite an estate taxArgument that inheritance tax will drive away wealthy is flawe
 
The news published on the date May 03, 2024 09:28 AM IST with headline  India has a lot going for it: Lakshmi Iyer of Kotak Alternate Asset Managers is: 
 Capex-related sectors have good orders on the back of government spend followed by recent uptick in private capex The US Federal Reserve, yet again, kept interest rates unchanged in its April meet, at the highest level seen in the US in 23 years. Globally and in India, there are unending deliberations on the last-mile challenges in taming inflation and effecting interest rate cuts. “Higher for longer is going to stay for some time,” says Lakshmi Iyer, the chief executive officer- Investment and Strategy, Kotak Alternate Asset Managers, adding that she expects one rate cut at bes
 
The news published on the date May 02, 2024 08:34 PM IST with headline  Stocks rise modestly after Fed, US data; yen slightly stronger is: 
 Stocks rise modestly after Fed, US data; yen slightly stronger A gauge of global markets gained on Thursday after the Federal Reserve indicated it was keeping a dovish tilt, while the yen retreated after another suspected round of intervention by the Bank of Japan.On Wall Street, U.S. stocks gained slightly in early trading, after Fed Chair Jerome Powell said that while recent inflation readings mean it will likely take longer than expected for central bank officials to become comfortable that inflation will resume its decline, interest rate increases also remained unlikely.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"The outcome of the statement, plus the press conference was for slightly more rate cuts to be priced in, not necessarily sooner, but by the end of the year," said Brian Nick, senior investment strategist at the Macro Institute.Markets have consistently scaled back the timing and amount of rate cuts this year from the Fed as inflation has proved to be sticky and the labor market remains on solid footing. After expecting the first cut to come by March at the start of the year, markets now see a better than 50% chance the Fed will cut by at least 25 basis points in September, according to CME's FedWatch Tool.The U.S. central bank also said it would slow the speed of its balance sheet drawdown starting on June 1 to ensure this process does not create undue stress in financial markets.
 
The news published on the date May 02, 2024 05:56 PM IST with headline  Centre debates merging ministries to form an Infrastructure Ministry, no firm proposal yet: CNBC-TV18 is: 
 Deliberations about the possibility of a merger of ministries aims to seek better coordination and faster approvals, according to sources. The government has discussed a possible consolidation of key ministries at a Viksit Bharat meeting, CNBC-TV18 reported citing sources.One idea that has been discussed involves creating a dedicated infrastructure ministry by merging Railways, Roads & Highways and Shipping & Ports into one entity, CNBC-TV18 learns. These are the ministries through which the government executes a sizeable amount of infrastructure spending. More ministries and departments could be on the radar to explore possibilities of synergy, sources told CNBC-TV18. As of today, the central government comprises of 53 ministries with 70 departments among them.Story continues below AdvertisementThe deliberations about the possibility of a merger of ministries and departments aims to achieve better coordination and faster approvals, though no firm proposal in this regard has been tabled as yet.Sources suggest the Railway Board would continue to function in the present form
 
The news published on the date May 02, 2024 05:11 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | 2W sales set to zoom past PVs in FY2025 is: 
 Dealers reckon that better-than-expected monthly sales come on the back of the wedding season and onset of harvest, both of which augur well for 2W demand (Representative image) Dear Reader,The April sales numbers sustained the upbeat mood that has been prevailing among auto makers for nearly two years. Defying debates over the consumption slowdown in the country, auto companies have been outliers, clocking robust sales in two-wheeler (2W) and passenger vehicles (PVs).Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHowever, FY2025 may well be the year of a strong comeback in 2Ws, which had for long lagged PVs. In fact, April 2W wholesales surprised with strong double-digit growth in domestic demand.Take note of these numbers. Bajaj Auto’s domestic sales grew 19 per cent year-on-year (yoy), TVS Motor Company by 29 per cent and Hero MotoCorp by 33 per cent with the premium motorcycle maker Royal Enfield too posting a 9 per cent growth.Supporting wholesale despatches from companies is the strong offtake at the retail level. Again, the robust growth in April 2W retail sales, which underscores actual customer offtake of vehicles, shot past that of PVs.
 
The news published on the date May 02, 2024 04:22 PM IST with headline  Oil prices rebound after closing at seven-week low is: 
 Oil prices rebound after closing at seven-week low Oil prices rose on Thursday, rebounding from three days of losses that took prices to their lowest since mid-March.Brent crude futures for July gained 79 cents, or 0.95%, to $84.23 a barrel by 0959 GMT. U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude for June climbed 69 cents, or 0.87%, to $79.69.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPrices fell more than 3% to a seven-week low on Wednesday after the U.S. Federal Reserve kept interest rates steady and warned of stubborn inflation, which could curtail economic growth this year and limit oil demand increases.Crude was also pressured by an unexpected increase in U.S. crude inventories in data from the Energy Information Administration (EIA). Inventories were shown at their highest since June. [EIA/S]."The updated inventory statistics were probably the most salient price driver over the course of yesterday's trading session," said PVM analyst Tamas Varga.
 
The news published on the date May 02, 2024 05:01 PM IST with headline  Rupee falls 3 paise to settle at 83.46 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee falls 3 paise to settle at 83.46 against US dollar The rupee stayed range-bound and closed 3 paise lower at 83.46 (provisional) against the US dollar on Thursday amid a strong American currency and rising crude oil prices in global markets.Forex traders said positive sentiment in the domestic equity markets and the inflow of foreign capital capped a sharp fall in the domestic currency.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange, the domestic unit opened strong at 83.41 and touched the intra-day low of 83.49 against the greenback.The local unit finally settled at 83.46 (provisional) against the dollar, down 3 paise from its previous close.The rupee had settled 2 paise higher at 83.43 against the dollar on Tuesday, a day after losing 7 paise on Monday.
 
The news published on the date May 02, 2024 02:06 PM IST with headline  India's government bond outflows in April an aberration, say analysts is: 
 India's government bond outflows in April an aberration, say analysts The recent sharp foreign investor selling in Indian government bonds in April, marking the highest monthly sales since the Covid-19 pandemic, is only an aberration, with inflows likely to continue in the coming months, senior market participants said.A large part of these outflows have happened on the back of weakness in the local currency and a jump in U.S. yields as investors repriced rate cut expectations, they said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"We are not expecting large-scale outflows because of rupee weakness or consistent dollar strength; the recent drop in rupee will not lead to a change in our outlook," said Parul Mittal Sinha, India head of financial markets at Standard Chartered Bank.Foreign investors sold bonds worth 149.5 billion rupees ($1.79 billion) on a net basis in April, the highest in the four years, after net purchases of bonds worth 816 billion rupees between October and March.April sales include the net sale of 99 billion rupees of bonds under the Fully Accessible Route (FAR) that are due to be included in JPMorgan's index from June, marking the largest ever monthly sale since the category was carved out in 2020.
 
The news published on the date May 02, 2024 02:04 PM IST with headline  RBI's FX intervention eases as conditions turn favourable for rupee is: 
 RBI's FX intervention eases as conditions turn favourable for rupee India's improving trade deficit, inflows into bonds and reduced pressure on the rupee in the offshore market has lowered the need for the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to intervene aggressively in the foreign exchange market.The RBI's interventions eased significantly earlier this year, with the RBI buying $8.5 billion in February and not making any sales, its latest monthly bulletin showed.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIts gross FX intervention in February was the lowest in six months and about an eighth of the average monthly intervention during October-December."Pressures (on the rupee) eased in the January-March period vis-a-vis October-December, which in turn reduced the magnitude of intervention," Vivek Kumar, an economist at QuantEco Research said.Kumar reckoned that factors like the drop in India's trade deficit would have contributed to the reduced FX activity. The merchandise trade deficit narrowed to an 11-month low in March.
 
The news published on the date May 02, 2024 12:01 PM IST with headline  Economists push out India rate cut forecasts to end of year is: 
 Economists push out India rate cut forecasts to end of year The Reserve Bank of India will likely delay cutting interest rates until the final quarter of the year, the latest Bloomberg survey shows, as inflation risks rise and the US Federal Reserve keeps rates on hold for longer.The RBI may start cutting its benchmark repurchase rate, currently at 6.5%, by a total of 50 basis points in the October-December period before pausing for a few months, the monthly survey shows. In the previous survey, economists had predicted a reduction in July-September quarter.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWith India’s growth-inflation dynamics healthy, “the global and geopolitical developments remain key to track,” said Achala Jethmalani, an economist at RBL Bank Ltd. “The monetary policy pivot in advanced economies, particularly the US Fed, could possibly alter the domestic rate scenarios too.”The RBI has kept interest rates on hold for seven straight meetings, with Governor Shaktikanta Das signaling his unwillingness to ease rates unless inflation settles around the central bank’s target of 4%. Inflation eased to below 5% in March, though an unusually hot summer could push up food costs.
 
The news published on the date May 02, 2024 12:41 PM IST with headline  Startup Street: The emerging B2B e-commerce surge in India is: 
 The growth of B2B e-commerce is fuelled by the emergence of online marketplaces offering products across various sectors In India so far, it has been B2C e-commerce (business-to-consumer electronic commerce) where a business sells goods or services directly to a consumer, which has been in the spotlight and garnering funding. B2B e-commerce (business-to-business electronic commerce), the online sale of goods or services between businesses, has been significantly subdued.B2B e-commerce is indeed becoming more prominent in India, driven by factors such as increased digital adoption, mature digital infrastructure, favourable regulatory policies, and a conducive cross-border environment. Individua
 
The news published on the date May 02, 2024 11:16 AM IST with headline  Godrej family settlement basically an extension of the status quo  is: 
 The Godrej family has to be credited for agreeing upon a settlement that will certainly bring relief to shareholders. But uncertainty hangs around the two issues of real estate and brand usage There’s good reason why real estate development along with ancillary real estate businesses feature prominently in the Godrej group’s stock exchange filing about its “Family Settlement Agreement” as well as the press releases thereupon. Land was always the most tricky part of the settlement that the four family branches have been negotiating, particularly after changes in the revised Mumbai Development Plan in 2017 opened up a large chunk of land, which had earlier been marked as non-developmen
 
The news published on the date May 02, 2024 09:46 AM IST with headline  Havells India: Q4 tops Street expectations is: 
 Havells' capex plans for the W&C segment are progressing as planned and the new capacity for underground cables is anticipated to come online by June 2024 HighlightsECD revenues were largely driven by fansPrice deflation hampered the performance of the lighting businessLloyd disappointed on growth front whereas margins flourishedNew capacity for underground cables to commence in Q1/Q2Stock is up ~30 percent in the last 6 month
 
The news published on the date May 02, 2024 09:05 AM IST with headline  Crude oil near two-month low as US inventories rise on worries over demand is: 
 A rise in US crude inventories may have added to the concerns about a weakening demand. Crude oil futures are down 3% overnight and 8% over the month, trading near two-month lows on signs of weak US demand and easing tensions in middle east. According to the latest report by EIA, US inventories in the previous week increased by 7.3 million barrels to 460.9 million barrels, the highest since June. This rise in US crude inventories may have added to the concerns about a weakening demand.Oil prices are sharply lower this week after soaring to the highest level since October in the aftermath of Iran’s unprecedented attack on Israel. The decline in oil futures is coinciding with signs of easing tensions in the Middle East. The US and Saudi Arabia are talking about a pact that would offer Riyadh security guarantees and possible diplomatic ties with Israel if its government ends the war in Gaza, according to a news report by Bloomberg.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdGOLD PRICESGold prices are witnessing buying interest below $2300 per ounce, having cooled off from the all-time highs of $2431 per oz level last tested on April 12. This fall occurred as Federal Reserve maintained its key rate unchanged for a sixth consecutive time. Easing concerns over geopolitical factors may have added to the gold price cool off. World Gold Council has said that the global gold demand in the January-March quarter has been the strongest first quarter of a year since 2016. Demand for gold rose 3% on year to 1,238 tonne during the January-March quarter.OTHER COMMODITIES
 
The news published on the date May 01, 2024 09:42 PM IST with headline  Sebi makes nomination optional for joint mutual fund portfolios is: 
 Sebi makes nomination optional for joint mutual fund portfolios Capital markets regulator Sebi on Wednesday made the nomination optional for jointly-held mutual fund accounts in a bid to promote ease of doing business. Additionally, Sebi allowed fund houses to have a single fund manager to oversee commodity and foreign investments. This would reduce the cost of managing the fund.These came after a working group constituted by Sebi reviewed mutual fund regulations and recommended measures to promote the ease of doing business. Based on the recommendation of the working group, a public consultation was carried out suggesting the option to make joint mutual fund account nominations optional and permitting fund houses to have a single fund manager to oversee commodity and foreign investments.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Accordingly, it has been decided that the requirement of nomination ….for mutual funds shall be optional for jointly held mutual fund folios," the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) said in a circular. Experts believe that the relaxation of nomination requirements for joint holders is beneficial as it simplifies the process of nomination by allowing the surviving member to become the nominee. This streamlines the transmission process and reduces hassle in such situations. Later, the last surviving member can assign a nominee.The regulator has set June 30, 2024, as the deadline for all existing individual mutual fund holders to nominate or opt out of nomination. If they fail to comply, their accounts will be frozen for withdrawals. In a separate circular, the regulator has eased the current provision with respect to dedicated fund managers.Sebi said that for commodity-based funds such as Gold ETFs (exchange traded funds), Silver ETFs and other funds participating in the commodities market, the appointment of a dedicated fund manager would be optional. Also, the appointment of a dedicated fund manager for making the overseas investments would be optional. The appointment of a single fund manager for domestic and overseas/commodity funds is intended to reduce the cost of managing the fund.
 
The news published on the date May 01, 2024 08:37 PM IST with headline  Gold regains some ground as spotlight shifts on Fed verdict is: 
 Gold regains some ground as spotlight shifts on Fed verdict Gold prices rebounded on Wednesday as caution sets in ahead of the U.S. Federal Reserve policy decision later in the day, while a pullback in the dollar and U.S. Treasury yields prompted some bargain hunting.Spot gold was up 1% at $2,307.88 per ounce as of 10:06 a.m. ET (1406 GMT), after hitting its lowest level since April 5 earlier in the session.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdU.S. gold futures rose 0.7% to $2,318.50.The dollar eased 0.2% after hitting a near six-month high, making gold less expensive for other currency holders, while benchmark U.S. 10-year bond yields also crept lower. [USD/] [US/]"There is a little more uncertainty about the global economy and along with geopolitical tensions and the uncertainty regarding the political elections, there's just a lot that are working in favor of gold," said Chris Gaffney, president of world markets at EverBank.
 
The news published on the date May 01, 2024 05:45 PM IST with headline  Dollar near five-month high ahead of Fed policy decision is: 
 Dollar near five-month high ahead of Fed policy decision The dollar edged towards its highest level this year against a basket of peers and U.S. share futures dipped on Wednesday ahead of a Federal Reserve policy decision, though trading was thin with many European and Asian markets closed.The dollar gained over 0.5% on Tuesday on the six currencies that make up the dollar index, and the gauge rose as high as 106.49 on Wednesday, a whisker off its highest since November.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe euro steadied but was under pressure at $1.0670, not far from its mid April, five-month lows, while the pound was at $1.2478.The latest move higher in the dollar came after hotter-than-expected first-quarter U.S. employment cost growth on Tuesday, which sent Treasury yields higher and caused markets to further pare bets on Fed rate cuts this year.Traders are currently only pricing in one rate cut in 2024.
 
The news published on the date May 01, 2024 05:34 PM IST with headline  Oil falls for a third day on Middle East ceasefire hopes is: 
 Oil falls for a third day on Middle East ceasefire hopes Oil fell more than 1% on Wednesday, losing ground for a third straight session on hopes of a ceasefire agreement in the Middle East and by rising crude inventories and production in top consumer the United States.Expectations that a ceasefire agreement between Israel and Hamas could be in sight have grown following a renewed push led by Egypt, even as Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has vowed to go ahead with a long-promised assault on Rafah.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBrent crude futures for July were down $1.24, or 1.4%, to $85.09 a barrel by 1145 GMT, having hit $84.78, their lowest since March 15.U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude futures for June were down $1.33, or 1.6%, to $80.60, after touching their lowest since March 21."The crude market is weighed down by continued hopes for a ceasefire," said Ole Hansen of Saxo Bank.
 
The news published on the date May 01, 2024 03:02 PM IST with headline  Govt unlikely to impose export curbs on low-grade iron ore is: 
 Govt unlikely to impose export curbs on low-grade iron ore India is unlikely to impose tariffs on exports of low-grade iron ore for now despite rising overseas sales to China, a source with direct knowledge of the matter said, turning down requests from small steel producers.China typically accounts for more than 90% of overall shipments of iron ore from India which is the world's fourth-largest producer of the steel-making ingredient.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Ministry of Steel was considering an export tax on iron ore after India's small and secondary steel producers earlier this year petitioned the government to curb rising exports.After examining the issue, the Ministry of Steel did not find any evidence to suggest that rising iron ore exports have hit the country's steel producers, said the source, who did not wish to be named as the plan is not public.The Ministry of Steel did not respond to a Reuters email for comments.
 
The news published on the date May 01, 2024 01:36 PM IST with headline  Developing e-commerce hubs to boost exports may figure in ministry's 100-day agenda of new govt: Official is: 
 Developing e-commerce hubs to boost exports may figure in ministry's 100-day agenda of new govt: Official Developing e-commerce hubs in the country to further promote India's exports through online medium are expected to figure in the commerce ministry's 100-day agenda roadmap for the new government, an official said.The commerce ministry's arm DGFT is already working with the RBI and concerned ministries, including the finance ministry, on several steps to promote exports through e-commerce medium as huge export opportunities are there in the sector.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe exercise assumes significance as ministries have been asked to prepare a 100-day plan for the new government.The seven-phase Lok Sabha polls, the world's biggest election exercise, kicked off on April 19 with the counting of votes set to take place on June 4.The official said that these hubs can help further promote exports through e-commerce mediums.
 
The news published on the date May 01, 2024 03:00 PM IST with headline  GST collection for April 2024 highest ever at Rs 2.1 lakh crore, up 12.4% YoY is: 
 GST collection for April 2024 highest ever at Rs 2.1 lakh crore India's Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections in gross terms hit a record high in April 2024 at Rs 2.1 lakh crore. This represents a 12.4 percent year-on-year growth, driven by a strong increase in domestic transactions (up 13.4 percent) and imports (up 8.3 percent), finance ministry said in a statement on May 1. The government had collected Rs 1.87 lakh crore as GST in the same period last year."After accounting for refunds, the net GST revenue for April 2024 stands at Rs 1.92 lakh crore, reflecting an impressive 15.5 percent growth compared to the same period last year," the ministry said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMonthly GST collections have risen over the years. From averaging under Rs 1 lakh crore per month in 2017-18 - its first year - collections rose rapidly after the pandemic-hit 20202-21 to average Rs 1.51 lakh crore in 2022-23.Gross collections in the first month of FY25 was also 17.81 percent higher versus the mop-up in March of Rs 1.78 lakh crore."The all-time high GST collection in April 2024 has come on the back of strong growth in collections from northern States like UP, Punjab, Haryana, Delhi etcetera. The GST collection in April month has traditionally been higher (the previous highest GST collection was also achieved in April 2023), given that it reflects the economic activity in the month of March, which is the last month of the fiscal year," said Gunjan Prabhakaran, Partner and Leader, Indirect Tax, BDO India.
 
The news published on the date May 01, 2024 10:49 AM IST with headline  MC Exclusive | Chidambaram pushed RBI to paint rosier picture of economy: Subbarao is: 
 Former RBI Governor D Subbarao P Chidambaram, who was the finance minister in the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government, pressed the Reserve Bank of India to paint a rosier picture of the economy, with inflated estimates of growth and inflation, former RBI Governor D Subbarao has written in his latest book, 'Just A Mercenary?: Notes from My Life and Career'.In the chapter 'Reserve Bank as the Government’s Cheerleader?' Subbarao writes that governments are not sensitive to the need for the RBI.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“If a government asks to raise estimates in order to boost public sentiment and if the RBI acts on it, it will be wrong. The RBI has to maintain its credibility as its monetary policy stance is based on estimates of growth and inflation,” he told Moneycontrol in an exclusive interview on April 30.The tension between the central bank and governments are hardwired due to the nature of the mandate of the RBI. The Reserve Bank of India is expected to maintain financial and price stability with a long-term view of the economy and implementing some decisions even if painful. On the other hand, this cannot be entrusted to elected governments because they have a short-term cycle driven by election calendars, he said.“When central banks and institutions are less mature in emerging economies like India, we have to be more careful about such differences coming out in the open, because they can destablise markets. Differences are there in every country, how they are handled, must be different. Emerging countries like India are particularly sensitive,” he added.
 
The news published on the date May 01, 2024 06:11 AM IST with headline  India cuts windfall tax on petroleum crude is: 
 India cuts windfall tax on petroleum crude India has cut its windfall tax on petroleum crude to 8,400 Indian rupees ($100.66) a metric ton from 9,600 rupees with effect from May 1, the government said on Tuesday.The tax, which is revised every fortnight, was left unchanged at zero for diesel and aviation turbine fuel.Story continues below AdvertisementThe government had on April 16 raised the windfall tax on petroleum crude to 9,600 rupees a metric ton from 6,800 rupees
 
The news published on the date April 30, 2024 07:22 PM IST with headline  Europe's economy shows signs of life with 0.3% growth in 1st quarter as inflation, energy woes ease is: 
 Europe's economy shows signs of life with 0.3% growth in 1st quarter as inflation, energy woes ease Europe's economy perked up slightly at the start of the year, recording 0.3% growth in the January-March quarter compared to the last three months of 2023 as the inflation burden on consumers eased and the stagnating German economy, the continent's biggest, started to show modest signs of life.The 20-country eurozone recorded its strongest performance since the third quarter of 2022 and improved on shrinkage of 0.1% in each of the last two quarters of 2023, according to official figures released Tuesday by the European Union's statistical agency Eurostat.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe economy had been held back by high inflation that has sapped consumer purchasing power, and by an energy price spike related to Russia cutting off most supplies of natural gas.Those headwinds have eased as energy prices have fallen and as inflation fell to 2.4% in April. But record high interest rates from the European Central Bank aimed at driving down inflation added another hurdle by raising the cost of credit for businesses and consumers.Inflation is now not that far from the goal of 2% set by the European Central Bank, leading to speculation that the central bank for the eurozone may cut its benchmark rate in June from its current record high of 4%.
 
The news published on the date April 30, 2024 05:51 PM IST with headline  Safe-haven gold on track for third monthly gain amid geopolitical woes is: 
 Safe-haven gold on track for third monthly gain amid geopolitical woes Safe-haven gold was poised for a third consecutive monthly gain as geopolitical risks and central bank demand lifted bullion's appeal, although prices fell on Tuesday as market focus shifted to the Federal Reserve's policy meeting.Spot gold was down 0.9% at $2,314.48 per ounce, as of 1104 GMT, pressured by firmer dollar that makes the metal more expensive for overseas buyers. U.S. gold futures fell 1.4% at $2,325.40. [USD/]Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdStill, gold prices have gained more than 3% in April after scaling a record high of $2,431.29 earlier this month."The main vector behind the gains of the last couple of months has been geopolitical instability driving the safe-haven trade," but prices have come down following reports of ceasefire talks between Israel and Hamas, said Ricardo Evangelista, senior analyst, ActivTrades.Israeli airstrikes killed dozens of Palestinians on Monday as Hamas leaders visited Cairo for a new round of truce talks.
 
The news published on the date April 30, 2024 05:48 PM IST with headline  Oil edges higher as investors eye Mideast talks, rates meeting is: 
 Oil edges higher as investors eye Mideast talks, rates meeting Oil edged up on Tuesday a day after falling as Israel-Hamas talks offered hopes of a ceasefire even as Red Sea attacks continued, while investors awaited signals on U.S. interest rates ahead of a meeting on Wednesday.Brent crude futures for June, which expire on Tuesday, were up 26 cents, or 0.3%, to $88.67 a barrel at 1101 GMT. The more active July contract rose 38 cents, or 0.4%, to $87.58 per barrel.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdU.S. West Texas Intermediate crude futures were up 34 cents, or 0.4%, to $82.97 a barrel. The front-month contract of both benchmarks lost more than 1% on Monday."New hopes of a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas caused oil prices to fall at the start of the week," said Commerzbank analyst Carsten Fritsch, adding that prices were also pressured by lower crude demand from refineries leading to higher inventory levels.Hamas negotiators left Cairo late on Monday to consult with the group's leadership after talks with Qatari and Egyptian mediators on a response to a phased truce proposal that Israel presented over the weekend.
 
The news published on the date April 30, 2024 04:13 PM IST with headline  Rupee recovers 4 paise to 83.41 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee recovers 4 paise to 83.41 against US dollar The rupee recovered 4 paise to 83.41 (provisional) against the US dollar on Monday, tracking foreign capital inflows and a strengthening greenback against major crosses overseal.According to forex analysts, the domestic currency initially faced resistance from a strong greenback and upward momentum in the crude oil prices but recovered the lost ground during the session on the back of a sharp rally in equities in the late afternoon trade.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 83.46 and traded between 83.41 and 83.52 against the greenback during the session.The domestic currency finally settled at 83.41 (provisional) against the dollar, registering a gain of 4 paise from its previous closing level.The rupee had settled 7 paise lower at 83.45 against the US dollar on Monday after losing 10 paise in the preceding session on Friday.
 
The news published on the date April 30, 2024 03:34 PM IST with headline  China’s top leaders hint at property support, rate cuts is: 
 China’s top leaders hint at property support, rate cuts China’s ruling Communist Party vowed to examine measures to tackle the nation’s excess housing inventory, signaling stepped-up help for a protracted property crisis, and hinted at possible rate cuts.Officials will “make flexible use” of tools to support the economy and lower overall borrowing costs, a meeting of the 24-man Politburo led by Chinese President Xi Jinping agreed, the official Xinhua News Agency reported Tuesday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThose tools include interest rates and the reserve requirement ratio, which determines the amount of cash banks must set in reserve, according to the statement. Policymakers reaffirmed monetary policy should be “prudent” while fiscal policy should be “proactive.”Chinese government bonds rallied after the readout, pushing the benchmark 10-year yield down most since March, on bets officials will keep policy loose to bolster growth. The yuan retained a loss of 0.2% amid gains in the dollar. Bloomberg
 
The news published on the date April 30, 2024 03:22 PM IST with headline  Goldman sees momentum traders buying stocks in every scenario is: 
 Goldman sees momentum traders buying stocks in every scenario Momentum traders are modeled to buy equities over the next week regardless of market direction, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s trading desk.Commodity trading advisers — funds that use systematic strategies to trade futures contracts — are exposed to about $106 billion in long positions after the drawdown in April, Cullen Morgan, an equity derivatives and flows specialist at the bank, wrote in a note. That’s set to support a bounce in global equities after a rough month.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“We now have CTAs as buyers of global equities and the S&P 500 in every scenario over the next week,” he said.Morgan expects CTAs to buy about $29 billion in global stock futures — including $8.5 billion in S&P 500 contracts — if equities were to rally over the next week. CTAs would still buy as much as $1.5 billion if stocks sold off again, he said.
 
The news published on the date April 30, 2024 01:49 PM IST with headline  India's oil import bill could swell to $101-104 billion in FY25: ICRA is: 
 India's oil import bill could swell to $101-104 billion in FY25: ICRA India's net oil import bill could widen to USD 101-104 billion in current fiscal from USD 96.1 billion in 2023-24 and any escalation in the Iran-Israel conflict could impart an upward pressure on the value of imports, ICRA said on Tuesday.The domestic rating agency said based on its analysis, lower value of Russian oil imports is estimated to have led to savings of USD 7.9 billion in 11 months (April-February) of 2023-24, up from USD 5.1 billion in 2022-23.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"With India's oil import dependency expected to remain high, if the discounts on purchases of Russian crude persist at the prevailing low levels, ICRA expects India's net oil import bill to widen to USD 101-104 billion in FY2025 from USD 96.1 billion in FY2024, assuming an average crude oil price of USD 85/bbl in the fiscal," ICRA said.Additionally, any escalation in the Iran-Israel conflict and an associated rise in crude oil prices could impart an upward pressure on the value of net oil imports in the current fiscal year, it added.As per ICRA's calculations, a USD 10/barrel uptick in the average crude oil price for this fiscal pushes up the net oil imports by USD 12-13 billion during the year, thereby enlarging the current account deficit (CAD) by 0.3 per cent of GDP.
 
The news published on the date April 30, 2024 01:17 PM IST with headline  The ‘build or buy’ copper maths that could guide BHP’s bid for Anglo is: 
 Expect BHP to up its bid, quickly rejected by Anglo, even though this deal will already dilute earnings per share slightly When selecting investments, portfolio managers might look a couple of years ahead. Company boards should consider the next decade. BHP has “copper” in its crystal ball.The miner’s all-share £30bn offer for rival Anglo American aims to extract copper, a metal for which everyone sees rising demand and limited new supply. Expect BHP to up its bid, quickly rejected by Anglo, even though this deal will already dilute earnings per share slightly. The build or buy copper math
 
The news published on the date April 30, 2024 12:13 PM IST with headline  Gold price rally could cut India's demand to four-year low: WGC is: 
 Gold price rally could cut India's demand to four-year low: WGC India's gold demand in the March quarter rose 8% from a year ago, but recent rallies in prices of the precious metal could cut its total consumption in 2024 to the lowest in four years, the World Gold Council (WGC) said on Tuesday.Demand for gold from India could stand between 700 metric tons and 800 metric tons in 2024, with the figure falling near the lower end of the range if prices continue to rally, Sachin Jain, CEO of WGC's Indian operations, told Reuters.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe WGC had earlier expected demand in the world's second biggest consumer after China to rise to between 800 and 900 tons in 2024. India's gold consumption fell 1.7% in 2023 from a year earlier to 761 tons.Domestic prices of gold hit a record high this month of 73,958 rupees ($885.72) per 10 grams. They have risen more than 13% in 2024 after rising more than 10% in 2023.Soaring gold prices, leading to effectively higher returns, are boosting investment demand while suppressing consumption for use in jewellery, which makes up three-quarters of total demand, Jain added.
 
The news published on the date April 30, 2024 11:42 AM IST with headline  India's gold demand up 8% in January-March to 136.6 tonne despite high rate is: 
 India's gold demand up 8% in January-March to 136.6 tonne despite high rate India's gold demand rose 8 per cent annually to 136.6 tonne in the March quarter helped by a strong economic environment despite prices touching historic highs, according to the World Gold Council.The aggressive gold buying by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) also contributed to the rise in demand.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndia's gold demand in value terms rose 20 per cent on an annual basis to Rs 75,470 crore during the January-March period of this year on volume growth as well as a rise in quarterly average prices by 11 per cent.On Tuesday, the World Gold Council (WGC) released its global report 'Gold Demand Trends Q1 2024', showing that India's total gold demand, including both jewellery and investment, increased to 136.6 tonne in January-March this year from 126.3 tonne in the year-ago period.Out of the total gold demand, the jewellery demand in India increased 4 per cent to 95.5 tonne from 91.9 tonne. The total investment demand (in the form of bar, coin among others) grew 19 per cent to 41.1 tonne from 34.4 tonne.
 
The news published on the date April 30, 2024 11:02 AM IST with headline  Bond markets may be the biggest surprise of 2024 for investors is: 
 The biggest reason why interest rates may not fall as expected (and there is a possibility of a rise too), is because globally central banks have run out of the luxury of printing more unbacked currency In order to trade any asset class profitably, an investor-trader must understand the concept of cost of funds. If you expect gross profit from any business venture to be lower than the cost of funds, your net result will be a net loss. This is a lesson equity investors must learn immediately.It is easy to fall prey to a mistaken notion that equity markets are the only game in town. Sure, they are the most talked abou
 
The news published on the date April 30, 2024 09:07 AM IST with headline  MC Inside Edge: Unknown callers dial Vodafone, the case for PSU banks, Mugul’s Biocon shot, HNIs’ love for SAIL is: 
 - Mystery buyersMassive delivery-based purchases in the Vodafone stock continues. Interestingly, despite heavy buying, the names are not showing up in disclosures on the stock exchange websites. One explanation is that there are too many buyers picking up the stock in quantities that do not trigger the disclosure clause. The other theory is that there is one player with a deep interest in the stock and is splitting the purchases in a way that they do not trigger the disclosure clause. Meanwhile, the stock is a big hit with some of the old hands on Dalal Street. A suave market observer who also happens to be on the board of a major retail chain is said to have picked up a sizeable quantity. And so has a ‘beautiful’ South-based broker, though it is not sure if the firm is loading up in its own books or on behalf of its clients.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBooster shotWith reasonably priced stocks hard to come by, the Midcap Mugul is looking for some unloved stories which the market may recognize at a later date. And Biocon seems to fit the bill. Mugul is said to have been a big buyer of the stock over the last week. There is chatter of a change of guard at the senior level. But Mugul is not the only one who has taken a fancy for the stock. Talk is that the Calculator PMS too appears to be convinced about the long term story and has been nibbling at the stock.
 
The news published on the date April 30, 2024 08:33 AM IST with headline  Will the US nudge hasten India’s IPR makeover? is: 
 The latest Special 301 report acknowledges that India has made progress “in addressing certain issues with trademark infringement investigations and pre-grant opposition proceedings”. (Representative image) HighlightsSpecial 301 list for 2024 retains India on Priority Watch listThis implies that the US is not satisfied with India’s IP regimeIndia has made progress in tightening the IP regime, but more needs to be done, says USTRFinance minister says India is doing everything so that the IPR ecosystem flourishesA parliamentary panel has recommended measures for the IPR makeoverNew Delhi will have to expedite the work started in building a robust IP regim
 
The news published on the date April 30, 2024 08:26 AM IST with headline  Regulation on steroids skips crucial links, misses some grey areas is: 
 - HighlightsThe RBI’s restrictions on Kotka Mahindra Bank and rules of allowing small finance banks turn into universal banks miss some grey areasThe increased focus on credit cards by the RBI shows its discomfort on how banks use third party channels to sell cards and recover duesBanks have different incentive structures for card sales and recovery agents, raising risks of fake card holdersBank licence criteria for small finance banks leaves ample room open for the RBI to us
 
The news published on the date April 29, 2024 06:02 PM IST with headline  US regulator opens preliminary probe into Ford's hands-free driving tech BlueCruise is: 
 US regulator opens preliminary probe into Ford's hands-free driving tech US regulator opens preliminary probe into Ford's hands-free driving tech BlueCruise The U.S. auto regulator said on Monday it has opened a preliminary investigation into Ford Motor's (F.N), opens new tab hands-free driving technology BlueCruise after being informed of two incidents involving Mustang Mach-E cars that collided with stationary vehicles.The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration's Office of Defects Investigation (ODI) opened the evaluation to investigate BlueCruise, which provides partial driving automation with the expectation that the driver actively supervises its performance.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBoth the collisions occurred during "nighttime lighting conditions", and each resulted in at least one fatality, according to the NHTSA.ODI's initial investigation of the incidents confirmed BlueCruise's engagement in each of the vehicles right before the collision.BlueCruise is only available on certain roadways and uses a camera-based driver monitoring system to determine driver attentiveness.
 
The news published on the date April 29, 2024 05:52 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama: A shoulder to the consumption wheel is: 
 Even in the FMCG sector, the initial reports from the large players of soft demand conditions imply they will be in no hurry to invest Dear Reader,It’s a familiar story with investors by now. India’s capex engine has been running mainly on government fuel with little support coming from the private sector. Optimists may say that when things go darkest it is then that the dawn is near. And so it may. But till then, we go by what the data is showing.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn today’s edition, my colleague Sachin Pal writes about excess capacity building up in the manufacturing sectors, . He cites examples in sectors such as room air-conditioners, where the government’s helpful PLI programmes have led to a sharp increase in capacity.This has led to intense competition as total manufacturing capacity may have increased by as much as 50 percent in the past two years alone while sales volumes are growing by as much as 10 percent. The gap means underutilisation of capacity for some years.There are other sectors too where this trend is visible, he adds, citing sectors such as renewable energy, paints, and cement where a price collapse has taken place. Even in the FMCG sector, the initial reports from the large players of soft demand conditions imply they will be in no hurry to invest.
 
The news published on the date April 29, 2024 05:36 PM IST with headline  Railway passengers can now book unreserved, platform tickets from anywhere via app: Report is: 
 The new changes could further spur online booking of tickets, reducing long queues at ticket counters on railway stations. In a move that could further ease passengers’ travelling experience, Indian Railways has removed a key restriction that will allow the purchase of unreserved tickets (UTS) from anywhere through an app, according to a report by Times of India.Railway passengers can now get unreserved and platform tickets without stepping out of home, senior divisional commercial manager Saurabh Kataria was quoted as saying in the report.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEarlier, there was a restriction of outer border geo-fencing distance of 50 km radius for booking tickets. That limitation has been removed now, allowing railway travelers to book unreserved tickets from anywhere with a smart phone and an internet connection.The move is likely to benefit train travelers, especially in cities such as Mumbai, where millions travel through local trains. Earlier, passengers could only purchase paperless tickets for suburban trains within a radius of 20 km and 50 km for non-suburban trains. The new changes could further spur online booking of tickets, reducing long queues at ticket counters on railway stations.However, the laws on the inner limits remain unchanged, which permits purchase of tickets near railway station property. According to reports, presently around 25 percent of commuters use the UTS app to buy online tickets.
 
The news published on the date April 29, 2024 04:08 PM IST with headline  Oil prices steady on Hamas ceasefire talks is: 
 Oil prices steady on Hamas ceasefire talks Oil prices were little changed on Monday as Israel-Hamas peace talks in Cairo tempered fears of a wider conflict in the Middle East, while U.S. inflation data dimmed the prospects of interest rate cuts anytime soon.Brent crude futures for June, which expire on Tuesday, were down by 51 cents, or 0.6%, to $88.99 a barrel by 0950 GMT. The more active July contract fell 27 cents, or 0.3%, to $87.94 a barrel.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdU.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) futures were down 22 cents, or 0.3%, at $83.63 a barrel.A Hamas delegation will visit Cairo on Monday for talks aimed at securing a ceasefire, a Hamas official told Reuters on Sunday."With little other fresh news, the possible cooling of the Gaza environment sees oil prices slip," said John Evans of oil broker PVM.
 
The news published on the date April 29, 2024 04:06 PM IST with headline  Online gaming: Understanding the tangled web of taxes is: 
 71 online gaming companies, including Gameskraft and Delta Corp. have received tax notices to pay Rs 1.12 lakh crore The taxability of online gaming services under goods and services tax (GST) has always been tricky, hinged on the distinction of whether they are classified as 'gambling' or 'skill-based' activities. While gambling activities such as betting and casino games attracted a 28 percent GST rate, skill-based games were taxed at a lower 18 percent rate.Since 2018-19, the industry has made several representations to the GST Council seeking clarity on the so-called 'value of supply' for online gaming. The metric refers to the monetary worth of goods or services provided by a supplier to a recipient for consideration. It is a crucial concept in determining the GST liability on transactions. The online gaming industry has been filing returns since 2017, and the GST Council was aware that the industry was paying GST at the rate of 18 percent, industry officials said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdCourt judgments clearly distinguished online skill gaming from betting and gambling. Therefore, the industry couldn't have classified itself as betting or gambling for the purpose of taxation.In early 2023, the Bombay High Court ruled in a case arising out a petition filed by Games24x7 that rummy was a game of skill. In November 2023, the Madras High Court noted that the law banning online games could apply to game of chance but not game of skills. The court asserted that rummy and poker, whether played online or offline, are games of skill.In 2022, the Karnataka High Court accepted Gameskraft's arguments and set the GST department's tax notice aside, saying that rummy was a game of skill.
 
The news published on the date April 29, 2024 04:05 PM IST with headline  Rupee falls 10 paise to settle at 83.48 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee falls 10 paise to settle at 83.48 against US dollar The rupee declined 10 paise to close at 83.48 (provisional) against the US dollar on Monday, as investors remained cautious ahead of the US Federal Reserve's monetary policy decision.A robust sentiment in the domestic equity market and softening crude prices in the international market, however, cushioned the downfall in the Indian currency, forex traders said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened weak at 83.39 and touched the intra-day low of 83.51 against the greenback during the session.The domestic currency finally settled at 83.48 (provisional) against the dollar, registering a loss of 10 paise compared to its previous closing level.On Friday, the rupee had declined 10 paise to close at 83.38 against the US dollar.
 
The news published on the date April 29, 2024 02:29 PM IST with headline  Increasing global uncertainties may impact demand, India's exports: FIEO is: 
 Increasing global uncertainties may impact demand, India's exports: FIEO The escalating geopolitical tension may have implications for the country's exports in the first quarter of 2024-25 as it is likely to impact global demand, apex exporters body FIEO said.The global uncertainties caused by continuing war between Russia and Ukraine has impacted India's outbound shipments in 2023-24, which recorded a decline of 3.11 per cent to USD 437 billion. Imports too dipped by over 8 per cent to USD 677.24 billion.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"If the global situation continues to be like this, it would impact global demand. In the first quarter numbers, the demand slowdown may be visible," FIEO Director General Ajay Sahai said.He added that despite all the challenges, freight rates are softening and it is giving an indication that demand may be impacted in the times to come.He cautioned that further escalation of the current situation could have serious implications on the world trade.
 
The news published on the date April 29, 2024 12:11 PM IST with headline  Multi-billion-dollar chip incentive plan in the works: Report is: 
 The work on the new plan is already underway and will be bigger than the previous scheme, sources in the report said A multi-billion-dollar incentive scheme for semiconductor manufacturing companies could be launched after the new government takes charge, according to a report by the Times of India. The results for the ongoing Lok Sabha elections 2024 will be declared on June 4.The package will follow the Rs 76,000-crore scheme announced in December 2021 to support manufacturing of chips in the country. According the report, the old scheme is close to being fully used.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe work on the new plan is underway and will be bigger than the previous scheme, sources in the report said, adding that it will be announced after the elections.In the past couple of years, India has been trying to put the country on the map of chip manufacturing by introducing incentive plans to attract companies.The India Cellular & Electronics Association (ICEA) urged the government to treat the semiconductor industry as a strategic sector, which allows access to cheap funds and help develop a capital market system for the hi-tech industry.
 
The news published on the date April 29, 2024 11:59 AM IST with headline  India’s Digital Competition Bill to spur innovation, particularly among smaller players is: 
 - The Digital Competition Bill is a significant development in India's digital regulatory framework, which requires careful attention and adaptation from all stakeholders. It is part of global governmental efforts toward digitization that have led to a remarkable growth of digital avenues across various sectors and introduced new complexities and challenges.With this exponential growth, there is also an increased demand for specialized regulatory measures to foster competition, innovation, and safeguard consumer interests in the digital realm. Regulators acros
 
The news published on the date April 29, 2024 10:27 AM IST with headline  MC Inside Edge: HNIs try to spin contra story in Andhra Cements, fund managers check out of Indian Hotels, BSE bulls stunned by Sebi shocker  is: 
 - Contrarian storyCement is not the hottest of sectors right now, given that cement prices have been under pressure for the last few months. But that is no deterrent for a group of HNIs who have been drumming up volumes in the Andhra Cements stock. Of the 7 lakh plus shares traded on the NSE on Friday, around 4.6 lakh shares resulted in delivery. The bulls have their task cut out though. Institutions did not participate in the recent offer for sale (OFS) by the promoters. The company has sizeable gross debt (Rs 643 crore as on September 30), and operating profits are nothing to write home about. More equity dilution is on the cards over the next couple of years as the promoters still own 90 percent. Is the latest flurry of activity an attempt by subscribers of the OFS to flip their purchases for a quick profit? Well….If anything, Andhra Cements will need to be seen as a long term story considering there are plenty of reasonably priced alternatives for those looking to bet on cement.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad -Checking outThings appear to be getting better for the hospitality sector now that international tourist arrivals too are picking up. But it seems to be a case of too much of a good thing. And this time, domestic fund houses seem to be playing it smart in hotel stocks. Even as the Indian Hotels stock has been making new highs since the start of the year, domestic mutual funds have been steadily paring their positions. The popular argument for the sector is that demand for rooms will continue to exceed supply in the foreseeable future and that room rates can only go one way….higher. Domestic fund managers however are opting to play it safe for the time being having burnt their fingers in previous hotel upcycles. Also, even some of the most bullish fund managers on the hotel story feel that margins may have peaked out for the time being.
 
The news published on the date April 29, 2024 09:18 AM IST with headline  Shriram Finance: Strong quarter, thanks to better execution, post merger is: 
 Long-term asset growth intact with near-term slowdown amidst elections Highlights - Quarterly performance largely backed by improved realisations - Medium-term triggers China plus and protectionist measures for tyre industry - Valuations not inexpensive; but improved medium-term outlook HighlightsFocus on growing bottom line faster vs top lineSteady asset quality; credit cost estimated to normaliseMargins to sustain on better product mixGrowth to slow down in Q1 due to lower capex amidst electionsValuation reasonable, given positive outloo
 
The news published on the date April 30, 2024 08:10 PM IST with headline  Household Consumption Survey: It says a lot about energy security, sustainability is: 
 As the processed foods are more energy intensive than the un-processed foods, this shift in expenditure towards processed foods may lead to increase in the energy demand for the economy at large One of the important considerations drawn from the Household Consumption Expenditure Survey indicates that the proportion of expenditure on food has declined to 47.5percent in 2022-23 for rural areas, down from 52.9percent in 2011-12 and 59.4percent in 1999-00. Urban areas similarly have experienced a sharp reduction in their spending on food to 39.7percent in 2022-23 compared to 42.6percent in 2011-12 and 48.1percent in 1999-00.At the same time, this relative decline in food expenditure appears to be partl
 
The news published on the date April 29, 2024 08:09 AM IST with headline  Efficient small finance banks need to become big  is: 
 Turning SFBs into full-service banks will enrich the Indian banking sector and make it a more effective instrument for development HighlightsRBI has reopened the prospects of small finance banks getting universal bank licenceSFBs lend to poor individuals and help lift them out of poverty through small business loansSFBs have mastered microlending in a profitable way when most banks shun this segmentUniversal bank licence would reduce the burden of priority sector lending on SFBs, cost of depositsBut SFBs must be wary of growing too fast and attracting irrational valuation
 
The news published on the date April 26, 2024 06:24 PM IST with headline  US inflation rises in line with expectations in March is: 
 Most of the resurgence in inflation appears to have been in the first two months of the year US inflation rose moderately in March, but that is unlikely to change financial markets' expectations that the Federal Reserve will hold off cutting interest rates until September.The personal consumption expenditures (PCE) price index increased 0.3% last month, the Commerce Department's Bureau of Economic Analysis said on Friday. Data for February was unrevised to show the PCE price index gaining 0.3% as previously reported.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn the 12 months through March, inflation rose 2.7% after advancing 2.5% in February. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast the PCE price index climbing 0.3% on the month and increasing 2.6% year-on-year. The PCE price index is one of the inflation measures tracked by the U.S. central bank for its 2% target. Monthly inflation readings of 0.2% over time are necessary to bring inflation back to target.There had been fears that inflation could exceed forecasts in March after the advance gross domestic product (GDP) report for the first quarter on Thursday showed price pressures heating up by the most in a year, driven by surging costs for services, especially transportation, financial services and insurance. These more than offset a drop in the prices of goods.Most of the resurgence in inflation appears to have been in the first two months of the year.
 
The news published on the date April 26, 2024 06:02 PM IST with headline  Business in the Week Ahead (April 29-May 3, 2024) is: 
 - Weather and geopolitics are the two key variants that can shape the inflation trajectory in the coming days. The state of economy article in RBI’s March bulletin is pretty clear on this. Any adverse weather conditions and extended geopolitical worries can result in a spike in oil prices that could threaten all the good work achieved so far on the price front.In fact, the threat is very real as the conflict between Israel and Iran intensifies ove
 
The news published on the date April 26, 2024 05:35 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Is RBI the champion of customers? is: 
 Governor Shaktikanta Das has frequently warned in his public addresses that artificial intelligence and algorithms should not be relied on by banks while underwriting credit risk Dear Reader,How far will a regulator go in protecting the end consumer of financial services, specifically, banking services? All the way till the end, is what the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has demonstrated so far.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe past few years has been exciting if you are someone who uses the plethora of banking services, from credit cards to payment apps. The RBI has been hard at work, finding regulatory gaps and filling them, bringing in entities under its purview where there was regulatory vacuum and tightening existing rules to keep entities on the straight and narrow. Be it the risk weights on unsecured loans, tightening screws on co-branded credit cards, bringing the wide network of fintech products and start-ups under its purview, all the while keeping a close eye on banking activities, the RBI has been on the ball.The surge in technological innovations pertaining to money has kept the central bank on its toes. The pandemic made it clear that the RBI cannot be caught unawares by activities with nefarious intentions and must be proactive to protect the customer. After all, India’s financial system may be a giant and robust machine, but it is perched on the delicate branch of trust. Any questions raised on trust would threaten financial stability. This trust is now more precarious than ever with the thread of technology entwining closely with banking.Of late, the RBI perhaps seems too harsh as it came down heavily on large lenders by restricting their business operations partly after it found serious compliance issues. We asked here whether the increase in frequency of restrictions (HDFC Bank in 2020, Paytm in 2023 and Kotak Mahindra Bank in 2024) shows that the central bank may be worried over financial stability or the conduct of these institutions. All that said, there is no doubt that the RBI’s actions are aimed at protecting the end customer. The key question now is: Are India’s financial institutions taking the customer for a ride?The regulator’s ombudsman scheme received 7 lakh complaints against financial entities in 2022-23, a staggering 68 percent year-on-year increase. A fifth of the complaints were pertaining to digital banking. Note that complaints that come to the ombudsman are less than 5 percent of the total received by financial entities. In essence, this means that there has been a general surge in complaints.
 
The news published on the date April 26, 2024 05:17 PM IST with headline  The Reading List: April 26, 2024 is: 
 - In a world strapped for time, we thought you may find it useful to have a selection of articles we read this past week. As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. Occasionally, we may stray from these subjects.These links may be from external websites we frequent o
 
The news published on the date April 26, 2024 02:44 PM IST with headline  RBI action on Kotak Mahindra Bank may restrain credit growth, profitability: S&P is: 
 RBI action on Kotak Mahindra Bank may restrain credit growth, profitability: S&P Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × S&P Global Ratings on Friday said RBI's regulatory action on Kotak Mahindra Bank could restrain the lender's credit growth and profitability.The RBI on Wednesday barred Kotak Mahindra Bank from issuing fresh credit cards and onboarding new customers online.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdCredit cards are a higher-yielding target growth segment for Kotak Mahindra Bank. This portfolio grew at 52 per cent year-on-year as of December 31, 2023, compared with total loan growth of 19 per cent, the US-based rating agency said."Action by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) this week could push the bank to rely more on physical branch network expansion to supplement growth thus entailing higher operating costs," S&P said, adding that it could be a setback for credit growth and profitability.This action will not, however, materially affect our ratings on Kotak Mahindra Bank (BBB-/Stable/A-3). This is because credit cards make up a small 4 per cent of total loans as of the end of December 2023. The bank will still be able to cross-sell its other products to existing customers.
 
The news published on the date April 26, 2024 11:14 AM IST with headline  Deloitte projects India's FY25 GDP growth at 6.6% is: 
 Deloitte projects India's FY25 GDP growth at 6.6% Deloitte India on Friday said it estimates India's GDP growth at 6.6 per cent in the current fiscal helped by consumption expenditure, exports rebound and capital flows.In its India's economic outlook report, Deloitte said the rapid growth of the middle-income class has led to rising purchasing power and even created demand for premium luxury products and services.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWith the expectation that the number of middle-to-high-income segments will be one in two households by 2030/31, up from one in four currently, we believe this trend will likely become further amplified, driving overall private consumer expenditure growth, it said.Deloitte has revised India's economic growth prediction for last fiscal to a range of 7.6 to 7.8 per cent. In January, the firm had projected growth for 2023-24 fiscal in the range of 6.9-7.2 per cent.The country's GDP growth is estimated to reach around 6.6 per cent in FY 2024-25 and 6.75 per cent in the year after, as markets learn to factor in geopolitical uncertainties in their investment and consumption decisions, Deloitte said in its quarterly update to its economic outlook.
 
The news published on the date April 26, 2024 10:50 AM IST with headline  Personal Finance: A depreciating rupee is more worrisome than high domestic equity prices is: 
 - Since the start of this year, we have been waiting for a meaningful correction in equity prices. Undoubtedly, valuations have reached a point of concern, especially in the mid- and small-cap stocks. At such times of rich valuation, any small risk factor, be it from the internal or external economy, can evoke a huge negative reaction and tip stock prices over.There is a great deal of uncertainty in equity markets now. However, there is also a grea
 
The news published on the date April 26, 2024 09:43 AM IST with headline  Why India should not bank on industry to solve the EV charging problem is: 
 - India’s nascent, but rapidly growing EV industry – which includes not just EV vehicle manufacturers and the component supply ecosystem, but critically, charging service providers – finally appears to be moving to address an issue which is not only the biggest pain point for existing EV users but is potentially the biggest roadblock to faster adoption of EVs.Earlier this month, the Bharat Charge Alliance, an association of EV manufacturers, charger and charger station manufacturers and operators, a
 
The news published on the date April 25, 2024 07:48 PM IST with headline  Gold trims gains as US Treasury yields rise after economic data is: 
 Gold trims gains as US Treasury yields rise after economic data Gold prices trimmed gains on Thursday as U.S. Treasury yields rose after economic data showed signs of persistent inflation, lowering hopes of the Federal Reserve cutting interest rates anytime soon.Spot gold firmed 0.3% at $2,321.70 per ounce by 9:47 a.m. ET (1347 GMT) after rising as much as 0.8% earlier in the session. Prices were down over $100 from an all-time high of $2,431.29 scaled on April 12, fuelled by geopolitical turmoil.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdU.S. gold futures rose 0.2% at $2,334.40.U.S. economic growth slowed more than expected in the first quarter, but an increase in inflation suggested the Fed would not cut interest rates before September."Gold is trading on the additional data point that shows that the Fed is not in a position to cut rates anytime soon," said Bob Haberkorn, senior market strategist at RJO Futures.
 
The news published on the date April 25, 2024 04:59 PM IST with headline  Rupee edges up 1 paisa at 83.32 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee edges up 1 paisa at 83.32 against US dollar The rupee inched up 1 paisa to close at 83.32 (provisional) against the US dollar on Thursday as the support from positive domestic equities was negated by continued selling pressure from foreign funds. Forex traders said foreign capital outflows also weighed on the rupee. However, a soft US dollar against key rivals overseas supported the domestic currency.At the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 83.34 against the greenback. Moving in a tight range, the unit hit an intra-day high of 83.31 and a low of 83.40 against the greenback. The local currency finally settled at 83.32 (provisional) against the dollar, 1 paisa higher from its previous close.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn Wednesday, the rupee consolidated in a narrow range and settled 2 paise lower at 83.33 against the US dollar. "We expect the rupee to trade with a slightly negative bias on recovery in crude oil prices and mixed to weak Asian and European markets. However, a soft dollar amid easing geopolitical tensions in the Middle East may support the rupee at lower levels," said Anuj Choudhary, Research Analyst at Sharekhan by BNP Paribas.Choudhary further noted that traders may take cues from Advance GDP, weekly unemployment claims and pending home sales data from the US. Investors may remain cautious ahead of inflation data on Friday. USD/INR spot price is expected to trade in a range of Rs 83.10 to Rs 83.70. Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, rose 0.05 per cent to USD 88.06 per barrel.Meanwhile, the dollar index, which gauges the greenback's strength against a basket of six currencies, was at 105.60, fell by 0.24 per cent. On the domestic equity market front, Sensex advanced 486.50 points, or 0.66 per cent, to settle at 74,339.44, and Nifty rose 167.95 points, or 0.75 per cent, to close at 22,570.35.
 
The news published on the date April 25, 2024 04:22 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | India’s banks face regulatory heat is: 
 Lax information technology (IT) systems are a problem in the present form of banking that is highly digitalised and functions on a real-time basis for most transactions Dear Reader,Shares of Kotak Mahindra Bank fell about 11 per cent today after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) barred the bank from onboarding new customers through its online platform and even issuing new credit cards.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe regulator’s decision was not a knee-jerk one. Rather, it was frustrated with the lack of effort from the bank to fix serious non-compliances in its digital operations. As explained by the RBI, the decision was taken after the bank failed to fix the concerns over its digital operations in a “comprehensive and timely manner”. This, in spite of several discussions held with the bank over the past two years.At first glance, such regulatory sanctions appear harsh, given that these are only related to digital infrastructure. But then, lax information technology (IT) systems are a problem in the present form of banking that is highly digitalised and functions on a real-time basis for most transactions.“The RBI crackdown through business sanctions, bans and restrictions has been relentless over the past three years,” says my colleague Aparna Iyer in this article. Earlier in 2020, HDFC Bank was suspended from onboarding new credit card customers, due to periodic outages in its systems. And, the RBI also acted against financial institutions such as Paytm Payments Bank, IIFL Finance and JM Financial Products for various reasons related to non-compliance.
 
The news published on the date April 25, 2024 04:06 PM IST with headline  Yen at multi-decade lows, dollar drops before US data is: 
 Yen at multi-decade lows, dollar drops before US data The yen hit a fresh 34-year low versus the dollar and a 16-year low against the euro on Thursday as investors expect a Bank of Japan policy meeting that ends on Friday to not be hawkish enough to support the Japanese currency.A day earlier, the buoyant dollar broke above the 155 yen level for the first time since 1990 after trading in a tight range over several days.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn Thursday, the greenback rose to a 34-year high of 155.74 yen and was last 0.2% higher at 155.62.Some market participants see the 155 level as a line in the sand that will prompt Tokyo authorities to take action.The euro hit a 16-year high of 166.98 yen and was last up 0.45% at 166.95.
 
The news published on the date April 25, 2024 03:56 PM IST with headline  Oil steady as US demand concerns balance Middle East conflict risks is: 
 Oil steady as US demand concerns balance Middle East conflict risks Oil steadied on Thursday after settling lower the previous day as signs of retreating fuel demand in the U.S., the world's biggest oil user, contended with widening conflict risks in the Middle East.This week's supply report from the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) on Wednesday showed gasoline stockpiles fell less than forecast while distillate stockpiles rose against expectations of a decline, reflecting signs of slowing demand. [EIA/S]Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"It does not exactly give a healthy state of domestic demand in the U.S.," said John Evans of oil broker PVM, who added that U.S. economic data out later in the day would be important for sentiment. "Oil prices today will not be in the hands of the oil market," he said.Brent crude futures fell 4 cents, or 0.1%, to $87.98 a barrel by 1005 GMT while U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude futures were down 7 cents, or 0.1%, at $82.74.U.S. crude inventories unexpectedly fell sharply last week, the EIA report also showed, as exports jumped.
 
The news published on the date April 25, 2024 03:51 PM IST with headline  Bajaj Finserv Q4 preview: Revenue may grow up to 25% YoY, led by lending business is: 
 So far this year, the stock of Bajaj Finserv has declined over a percent, underperforming 3 percent gain in the benchmark Nifty 50 index Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × Bajaj Finserv, the holding entity of Bajaj Finance, is expected to clock up to 25.3 percent on-year revenue growth at Rs 29,604 crore in the January-March quarter (Q4FY24) from Rs 23,625 crore a year-ago, driven by lending business, said analysts. The company is set to unveil its Q4FY24 results on April 26.The non-bank lender's profit-after-tax (PAT), too, is expected to see a jump of up to 33.3 percent YoY to Rs 2,357 crore in Q4FY24 from Rs 1,769 crore in Q4FY23.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBajaj Finserv is a diversified financial services group with a pan-India presence in life insurance, general insurance, and lending. It has 51.42 percent shareholding in Bajaj Finance and 74 percent each in Bajaj Allianz General Insurance and Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance.ALSO READ: The Bajaj name eased our way: Ganesh Mohan, CEO, on Bajaj Finserv MF's first yearAccording to analysts at KRChoksey, Bajaj Finserv's lending subsidiary Bajaj Finance is expected to drive growth in total income, while claims and costs are likely to remain stable. They pegged total income to grow up to Rs 29,604 crore in Q4FY24, while PAT was forecasted at Rs 2,357 crore.
 
The news published on the date April 25, 2024 03:19 PM IST with headline  Above-normal monsoon rains likely to ease food prices, says finance ministry is: 
 Easing of food prices likely with predictions of above-normal rainfall: Finmin The government expects an easing of the food prices with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicting above-normal rainfall this year, which will lead to higher production, the finance ministry has said in a report.“Further easing of food prices is on the anvil as IMD has predicted above-normal rainfall during the monsoon season, which is likely to lead to higher production, assuming good spatial and temporal distribution of the rainfall,” the department of economic affairs said in its monthly economic review for March.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndia's food inflation declined from 8.7 percent in February to 8.5 percent in March. Vegetable and pulses have been a key challenge to controlling inflation, which continues to remain above the Reserve Bank of India's target of four percent.To check prices, the government has taken several measure such as strengthening of buffers of key food items and making periodic open market releases, easing imports of essential food items through trade policy measures, preventing hoarding through revision of stock limits, channelling supplies through designated retail outlets etc.The RBI’s monetary policy committee sees food price uncertainties weighing on the inflation outlook.
 
The news published on the date April 25, 2024 03:12 PM IST with headline  Stocks and yen struggle as tech troubles weigh is: 
 Stocks and yen struggle as tech troubles weigh World stocks snapped a three-day winning streak on Thursday as disappointing forecasts from Facebook and Instagram parent Meta hammered tech, while the yen's drop through 155 per dollar for the first time since 1990 kept FX traders on intervention alert.Both U.S. Q1 GDP data and more 'Big Tech' earnings were scheduled for later in the day but for now it was Meta's 15% after-hours price slump that was souring the mood.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdJapan's tech-heavy Nikkei slid 2% in Asian trading and European tech stocks were down 0.8% in early dealing as traders did pretty much the opposite to the previous day after Tesla had promised new models by early next year. [.EU]In an earnings-packed week, tech bellwethers are in the spotlight, with Alphabet, Microsoft and Intel also due to report on Thursday."If Meta is a guide, it seems the market is simply not tolerant of in-line if you've had a good run through Q1 & Q2 you either blow the lights out, or the market takes its pound of flesh," said Chris Weston, head of research at Pepperstone.
 
The news published on the date April 25, 2024 03:10 PM IST with headline  Vegetable prices may stay elevated till June on above-normal temperatures: Crisil is: 
 Vegetable prices are characterised by prominent seasonality and high volatility. Price of vegetables, the most volatile component of food inflation, may be elevated for the next few months due to above-normal temperatures till June, rating company Crisil said.Prices may ease after the monsoon starts in June, as forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the rating company said on April 25.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“The IMD has predicted an above-normal southwest monsoon in 2024. This augurs well for vegetable prices, but the distribution of monsoon is also crucial. IMD expects above-normal temperatures till June, which could keep vegetable prices elevated for the next few months,” Crisil said.India is among the most climatically vulnerable countries and weather risks are only mounting. With weather conditions such as heat waves, flooding, storms and changing monsoon patterns, climate change is likely to have a dire impact on vegetable production and prices.Rising temperatures could also exacerbate the pest problem, Crisil said.
 
The news published on the date April 25, 2024 12:04 PM IST with headline  Steamy market valuations call for alteration in longer-term strategy is: 
 - (image) Source: NSEAt a recent family dinner, a discussion on the magic of slow cooking wafted through the house. Flavours enriching the meal, while withholding loss of nutrients due to the long-drawn cooking time, took me back to the value funds argument we had earlier in our office.In these funds, the quality ingredients –aka stocks– trading below their intrinsic value are left to simmer until they unlock their potential years later. This makes the stock-picking process fo
 
The news published on the date April 25, 2024 11:20 AM IST with headline  As India develops, problem of high food inflation will get less severe: RBI MPC member Ashima Goyal is: 
 RBI MPC member Ashima Goyal The problem of high food inflation will be "less severe" in India going ahead, as modern supply chains with diversified sources can help quickly address sudden spikes in prices of specific food items, RBI Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) member Ashima Goyal said on Thursday.Stressing that the share of food in the household budget is high in India, Goyal said policy needs to focus on increasing agricultural productivity, since stable agricultural prices are important for non-inflationary growth. "As India develops, this problem (high food inflation) will get less severe, for a number of reasons. Modern supply chains with diversified sources respond quickly to large spikes in specific items," she told PTI.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdGoyal further pointed out that one does not hear of tomato or onion prices spiking in advanced economies. "We naturally have diverse geographic regions, better integrated markets sourcing from different regions can help mitigate climate change induced food price spikes," she said.Moreover, as the weight of food in consumption falls and food consumption itself becomes more diversified, the impact and size of future food price shocks falls, she noted. Goyal stressed that under flexible inflation targeting, expectations get better anchored.She cited the example of East Asia, where food prices were allowed to rise and agriculture was subsidized only after food budget shares fell. "India unfortunately opted for a distorting system of subsidies to farmers as well as to consumers," she said, adding that given India's huge population this was very expensive and reduced the space for government investment in agriculture.
 
The news published on the date April 25, 2024 10:53 AM IST with headline  Start-up Street | Calling an end to the Funding Winter is: 
 - Almost on a daily basis, India’s formerly highest valued startup – Byju’s - makes headlines for the wrong reason. The tussle between the Edtech company’s founder and its investors - both old and even new - seems endless. Also, well known “Unicorn minting” investors like Softbank and Tiger Global have been missing in action for almost two years.Therefore, is talk of an end to the funding winter just wishful thinking? Or, are there signs of green shoots beyond th
 
The news published on the date April 25, 2024 09:06 AM IST with headline  How should India get ready to be B-READY? is: 
 Representative image HighlightsThe World Bank to launch its new business environment index in SeptemberIndia report to be published in 2026, but survey will start this yearThe government has started early preparation for the dossierIndia’s expanding economy should help to pitch for global investmentsHowever, several challenges remain, including competition from other countriesIndia should ensure that more investment and higher growth benefit a wider section of societ
 
The news published on the date April 24, 2024 06:49 PM IST with headline  Gold extends slide as Middle East crisis escalation fears ease is: 
 Gold extends slide as Middle East crisis escalation fears ease Gold prices fell for a third session on Wednesday, partly because hedge funds reduced their holdings amid easing concerns of a major escalation of the Middle East crisis, while investors awaited key U.S. economic data for interest-rate clues.Spot gold fell 0.3% to $2,315.34 per ounce by 1153 GMT, after having hit its lowest since April 5 in the previous session. U.S. gold futures fell 0.6% at $2,328.60.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPart of the reason that prices are coming off is that hedge funds have reduced their allocation for gold, while some of the tensions in the Middle East have faded a bit in recent days, UBS analyst Giovanni Staunovo said.The U.S. dollar regained some ground on Wednesday while benchmark Treasury yields also rose, making the dollar-priced bullion less attractive for other currency holders and as an investment option compared with debt. [US/] [USD/].Gold prices have dropped more than 3% since the start of this week.
 
The news published on the date April 24, 2024 06:31 PM IST with headline  EPFO to credit interest for FY24 to members' accounts 'very shortly' is: 
 EPFO had hiked the interest rate on deposits to 8.25 percent for FY24 from 8.15 percent during the previous year The Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) on April 24 said it is in the process of allocating increased interest for the provident fund deposits made during the financial year 2023-24.EPFO had hiked the interest rate on deposits to 8.25 percent for FY24 from 8.15 percent during the previous year. Members of the fund are eagerly awaiting the payment of the increased amount for FY24 as it is expected to be higher compared to FY23.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdResponding to a member’s query on social media platform X, the EPFO said, “The process is in the pipeline and may be shown there very shortly. Whenever the interest will be credited, it will be accumulated and paid in full. There would be no loss of interest.”For the financial year 2022-23, the retirement fund organisation said it credited the interest to the accounts of 28.17 crore members’ banks.“Dear member, the interest for Financial Year 2022-23 has been provided to 28.17 crore members accounts of EPFO as on date. If you are facing any inordinate delay, then you are requested to register your grievance on http://epfigms.gov.in,” it said on X.
 
The news published on the date April 24, 2024 04:34 PM IST with headline  Rupee settles on flat note, up 1 paisa at 83.30 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee settles on flat note, up 1 paisa at 83.30 against US dollar The rupee consolidated in a narrow range and settled for the day higher by 1 paisa at 83.30 against the US dollar on Wednesday, as the support from positive domestic equities was negated by rising American currency. Forex traders said elevated crude oil prices and significant foreign fund outflows in the international market dented investors' sentiments.At the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 83.29 against the greenback. The unit hit an intra-day high of 83.26 and a low of 83.33 against the greenback. The domestic unit finally settled at 83.30 (provisional) against the dollar, 1 paisa higher from its previous close.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn Tuesday, the rupee closed at 83.31 against the American currency. Forex traders said the rupee is expected to trade with a slight positive bias on improved global risk sentiments and easing of geopolitical tensions in the Middle East. However, any fresh aggressions in the Middle East may cap gains for the local unit.Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, fell 0.34 per cent to USD 88.12 per barrel. "Geopolitical risks in the Middle East and talks of fresh energy sanctions on Iran could see some occasional hiccups in prices to move higher but we don't expect prices to sustain USD 85 for a short duration," said Mohammed Imran – Research Analyst at Sharekhan by BNP Paribas.Meanwhile, the dollar index, which gauges the greenback's strength against a basket of six currencies, was at 105.84, higher by 0.16 per cent. "We expect the rupee to trade with a slight positive bias on rise in risk appetite in global markets and easing geopolitical tensions in the Middle East. However, hawkish comments from the Fed may support the dollar at lower levels," said Anuj Choudhary Research Analyst, Sharekhan by BNP Paribas.
 
The news published on the date April 24, 2024 05:27 PM IST with headline  RBI extends deputy governor T Rabi Sankar's term by a year is: 
 Reserve Bank of India (RBI) deputy governor T. Rabi Sankar The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has extended deputy governor T Rabi Sankar's term by a year, according to people familiar with the development. Sankar was appointed the deputy governor in May 2021 following the retirement of BP Kanungo. Prior to his role as DG, Sankar was one of the executive directors of the RBI.At RBI, Sankar handles important portfolios such as department of currency management, external investments and operations, government and bank accounts, Information Technology and Payment and Settlement Systems.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBesides, he also handles foreign exchange department, internal debt management department and right to information. Rabi Sankar is a career central banker who joined the RBI in 1990 and has worked in various positions in the central bank.In his earlier role as Executive Director, Sankar was looking after the Department of Payment and Settlement Systems, the Department of Information Technology, Fintech and the Risk Monitoring Department in RBI.Sankar's areas of expertise include exchange rate management, reserves portfolio management, public debt management, monetary operations and development, regulation and surveillance of financial markets, payment systems and IT infrastructure.
 
The news published on the date April 24, 2024 04:13 PM IST with headline  Article 39 (b) and its likely bearing on the wealth redistribution debate is: 
 The court had earlier asked the Election Commission to answer its questions regarding cross-verification of the votes cast in EVMs with VVPAT A nine-judge bench of the Supreme Court on April 23 commenced the hearing of a bunch of decades-old petitions that raise the question on the scope of the words ‘material resources of the community’.The court has set out to decide whether these words used in Article 39 (b) of the Constitution also includes private property. The article asks states to frame policies towards securing material resources of the community so that they are distributed to serve the ‘common good’. The court is now hearing the case to decide whether ‘material resources of the community’ includes private property.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHowever, Article 39 does not feature in the Fundamental Rights section of the Constitution, it features in the Directive Principles of State Policy (DPSP), which are not enforceable in a court of law. They are merely aspirational directives asking the government in power to implement certain laws, and are also guiding principles to the government while making laws.The hearing comes close on the heels of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi promising to conduct a nationwide survey, if voted to power, to ensure that money is distributed to various sections of the society as per their population.Moneycontrol explains what the case is about, how it reached the Supreme Court and what was held on this provision of law before this.
 
The news published on the date April 24, 2024 03:38 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Jane Street has done Indian markets a big favour is: 
 The selective outrage towards HFT traders contrasts with the acceptance of profits garnered through other investment avenues, such as Foreign Portfolio Investments (FPIs) Dear Reader,The renowned US Hedge Fund firm Jane Street has recently garnered significant attention within Indian financial circles, overshadowing its prominence in its home market. This sudden interest stems from a legal dispute initiated by Jane Street against rival Millenium Management, alleging the misappropriation of proprietary trading strategies. Amidst the legal battles, revelations surfaced regarding Jane Street's substantial profits, totalling a staggering $1 billion, derived from trading activities within the Indian market.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe ensuing chatter across social media platforms painted a picture of perceived exploitation, with various market participants pointing out what they perceived as profiteering at the expense of unsuspecting retail traders. However, before passing judgment based solely on social media discourse, it is imperative to contextualise Jane Street's activities within the broader landscape of options trading.Jane Street is but one among many trading entities, both domestic and international, that have capitalised on options trading to generate substantial returns. Notably, a significant portion of the options market comprises institutional traders, with retail traders constituting a mere 35 percent.Moreover, the utilisation of High-Frequency Trades (HFTs) and Market Making strategies facilitated by sophisticated computing technologies is not unique to Jane Street but a prevalent practice employed by numerous trading firms globally, including domestic and international firms operating within India.
 
The news published on the date April 24, 2024 01:36 PM IST with headline  Regulatory risk in sight for FMCG companies is: 
 From time to time the government, as in the case of advertising using celebrities or influencers, intervenes to check unscrupulous practices. But implementation is quite lax Executives at FMCG companies charged with managing government affairs will probably be busy for a while. While the Supreme Court’s ire in the Patanjali Ayurved case is directed chiefly at Baba Ramdev and Acharya Balkrishna and its senior management, the FMCG industry faces collateral damage that could be material.On April 23rd, the SC was reported to have said that while it would take a closer look at the implementation of laws under several acts relating to drugs
 
The news published on the date April 24, 2024 03:05 PM IST with headline  MC Inside Edge: BSE rides high on colo story, bulls perch atop Indus Towers, fund managers’ brotherly love, broking’s comeback is: 
 BSE has managed to wrest market share from NSE, but it needs to show that it can make meaningful profits on those volumes Algo theoryBSE shares continue to climb higher. Latest chatter on the Street is that some of the big algo trading firms are showing interest in taking up the exchange’s co-location server facility, now that options volumes have picked up in a big way. The stock has had a fantastic run over the last year and with every renewed surge, some new theory comes up to justify the rise. Co-location server facility is a money spinner, but much will also depend on whether the big boys of the algo game are willing to put money where their mouth is. BSE has managed to wrest market share from NSE, but it needs to show that it can make meaningful profits on those volumes. March quarter numbers could give some indication on that front.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTowering higherEven as the Street remains divided in its outlook on Vodafone, bulls are driving the Indus Towers stock to fresh highs. The popular story is that Vodafone Idea will repay its dues to Indus once it raises money. Players tracking Indus say the money won’t come in immediately, but at least there is hope that the money will come over time. The other chatter doing the round that Vodafone Plc is eyeing Rs 360-380 as the price point for selling a good part of its 21 percent stake in the company. The stock may no longer be cheap, but bulls are peddling the narrative that since block deals happen at a discount to market price, the spot price may still have some steam left.
 
The news published on the date April 24, 2024 08:26 AM IST with headline  RBI’s State of the Economy makes a dash for long-term high growth is: 
 RBI shoots a strategy for long-term high growth HighlightsRBI bulletin states that India needs to grow 8-10 percent per annum to benefit from its demographic dividendA high youth population has made India a preferred investment destination for global firmsRBI states labour force must be the focus of strategy for high growthQuality of labour has improved at aggregate level mainly due to services sector, says RBIRBI warns of volatile food inflation in the near term, stresses cautio
 
The news published on the date April 24, 2024 08:03 AM IST with headline  Unemployment biggest worry in India, world's fastest growing economy: Poll is: 
 Unemployment biggest worry in India, world's fastest growing economy: Poll The biggest economic challenge for the government after the ongoing election is unemployment, according to economists polled by Reuters who expected the world's most populous country to grow a healthy 6.5% this fiscal year.Despite growing at the fastest pace among major peers, the economy has failed to generate enough jobs for its large and expanding young population, a key issue among citizens in the midst of electing the next government.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA majority of economists, 15 of 26, in the April 16-23 Reuters poll who answered an additional question said the biggest challenge for the government after the national election would be unemployment.Eight said rural consumption, two picked inflation and one said poverty."Following a decade of near jobless growth, the rising number of discouraged workers had pushed India's LFPR (labour force participation rate) down well below levels exhibited by the four Asian tigers at comparable stages in their demography," said Kunal Kundu, India economist at Societe Generale.
 
The news published on the date April 23, 2024 05:19 PM IST with headline  India's inflation at risk from extreme weather, geopolitical issues: RBI bulletin is: 
 India is likely to experience more heat-wave days than normal between April and June, the country's weather office said earlier this month Extreme weather events along with prolonged geopolitical tensions could pose a risk to India’s inflation trajectory, even as growth in the South Asian nation exhibits an uptrend, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said in its latest bulletin on Tuesday.”…food price pressures have been interrupting the ongoing disinflation process even as shocks from adverse climate events and geopolitical tensions add uncertainties to the outlook,” the RBI staff said in a ’State of the Economy’ article.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndia is likely to experience more heat-wave days than normal between April and June, the country’s weather office said earlier this month.While alignment with the inflation target is gradually occurring, incoming data will provide greater clarity and confidence on the disinflation path, the RBI said.India’s retail inflation eased to a five-month low of 4.85% in March from 5.09% in the previous month.
 
The news published on the date April 23, 2024 04:47 PM IST with headline  Winners of critical minerals auction expected in May, Centre may invite more bids: Report is: 
 The government has received around 50 bids from firms such as Vedanta, Coal India, NLC India, Shree Cement, Orient Cements, Ola Electric, the Dalmia Group, the Rungta Group and Jindal Power Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × The winners of the auction for critical minerals conducted in November, could be declared next month, a report by Financial Times said quoting VL Kantha Rao, a secretary in the mines ministry.Importantly, another 20-30 blocks will be up for auction after the completion of the ongoing Lok Sabha elections, Rao was quoted as saying in the news report. The upcoming auctions of 2024 could see bidders vie for mines of lithium, cobalt, graphite and Molybdenum, according to the FT report.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn February this year, the Central government had sought bids for 20 more blocks of critical minerals, some of which are used in technologies for solar modules, wind turbines and batteries. Centre has been pushing both PSU and private mining groups to pursue mineral reserves abroad, as well as seeking bids to develop mining blocks at home.India has been looking to strengthen domestic supply of raw materials required to support its shift to green energy. Adequate supplies of critical minerals is essential across sectors, like renewable energy and chip manufacturing.Aditya Birla Group flagship Hindalco Industries is among the companies that have shown interest in entering exploration and mining of critical minerals including lithium, graphite, copper and nickel. There has been a surge in the demand for electric vehicle (EV) battery materials in the Indian market. Aside of Hindalco, Coal India, Hindustan Zinc and are some of the major players who have shown interest in the critical mineral blocks
 
The news published on the date April 23, 2024 09:48 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | India at big club threshold is: 
 Climbing the world economic league tables can have positive implications for India. Allocations from global funds will rise, deepening India’s public markets Dear Reader,The International Monetary Fund's (IMF) latest update reiterates India’s rise on the global economic landscape. India’s output is projected to grow twice as fast the global economy in FY25 and FY26, outpacing China and other emerging markets. According to IMF, the 3.2 percent growth forecast for the global economy in 2024 is low by historical standards and reflects headwinds from high borrowing costs, the Russia-Ukraine war and geopolitical tensions. India’s economic growth is also estimated to moderate from the previous fiscal year. But even the absolute growth rates are expected to be healthy.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“Growth in India is projected to remain strong at 6.8 percent in 2024 and 6.5 percent in 2025, with the robustness reflecting continuing strength in domestic demand and a rising working-age population,” IMF said in the World Economic Outlook report. The growth projections given by IMF are for fiscal years FY25 (2024) and FY26 (2025).Economists elsewhere share IMF’s views on India’s economic prospects. For instance, Nomura expects the Indian economy to grow at an average annual rate of 7 percent between 2024 and 2028. “With China’s economy slowing, India is likely to be the fastest growing Asian economy this decade, in our view,” economists at Nomura said in a note.The HSBC Flash India Composite Purchasing Managers Indices (PMI) indicate upbeat activity in Indian economy. At 62.2 in April, the Flash India Composite PMI output index rose at the fastest pace in nearly 14 years. The Flash PMI signals a very strong economy.
 
The news published on the date April 23, 2024 02:47 PM IST with headline  Smoking hookah more injurious than cigarettes: Karnataka HC upholds state ban is: 
 The state government had issued a notification banning hookah smoking on February 7. Smoking hookah is less harmful than cigarettes is a common misconception, said Karnataka High Court on April 22 while dismissing challenges to a state government notification banning shish smoking, Bar and Bench reported.The state government had issued a notification banning hookah smoking on February 7. The court said the action of the state government is in strict consonance with Article 47, which allows the state to prohibit consumption of intoxicating drinks and drugs considered harmful to health, except for medicinal usage.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdDespite the fact that hookah is more injurious, the regulation on its smoking is ‘loose’, said the single judge bench of Justice M Nagaprasanna, who had reserved the order on March 11."The defence all over is that Hookah is less harmful than cigarettes. The studies again are otherwise... It is again a myth that smoking of hookah carries less risk of tobacco related diseases than smoking cigarettes. Hookah contains many of the common toxins as cigarettes,” the judge said, adding that more people are smoking shish across the world, citing a World Health Organization study.The judge further added that smoking hookah for an hour is equivalent to smoking 100 cigarettes.
 
The news published on the date April 23, 2024 07:30 PM IST with headline  India's sugar demand surges in heat wave and election season is: 
 India's sugar demand surges in heat wave and election season India's sugar consumption this year is poised to hit a record high as demand during the peak summer season gets a boost from heat waves and the mobilisation of millions for elections in the scorching temperatures.Higher consumption would lift local prices and boost margins of sugar producers such as Balrampur Chini, Shree Renuka Sugars, Bajaj Hindusthan, and Dwarikesh Sugar and help them in making cane payments on time to farmers.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdConsumption of cold drinks and ice cream, and as a result demand for sugar, rises in India during the summer months roughly from mid-March to mid-June.But this year demand is above average as heat waves and election rallies boost consumption of ice-cream and soft drinks, said Avantika Saraogi, executive director at Balrampur Chini Mills.Maximum temperatures in many parts of India have risen above 40 degrees Celsius, and the weather department has forecasted that the country is likely to experience more heat-wave days than normal between April and June.
 
The news published on the date April 24, 2024 03:04 PM IST with headline  India’s Composite Flash PMI for April signals very strong economy is: 
 - The India Flash Composite Purchasing Managers Index, came in at 62.2 for April, compared to a final reading of 61.8 for March, indicating that the growth momentum in the economy, already robust, is strengthening further. The survey said, ‘positive demand trends fuelled new business intakes and output. In both cases, rates of expansion were the fastest in close to 14 years.’(image) The Flash PMI is an advance estimate of the final PMI numbers usually based on responses from 80-90 percen
 
The news published on the date April 23, 2024 10:39 AM IST with headline  India's April business growth at near 14-year high, PMIs show is: 
 Strong sales improved the business outlook for the coming 12 months from a four-month low in March. India's business activity expanded at its fastest pace in nearly 14 years this month thanks to robust demand, according to a survey released on Tuesday that also showed easing input inflation and positive jobs growth.That suggests India is well placed to remain the fastest growing major economy this year after posting strong expansion over the past few quarters.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHSBC's flash India Composite purchasing managers' Index INPMCF=ECI, compiled by S&P Global, rose to 62.2 this month from March's final reading of 61.8.The reading has been consistently above the 50-mark separating expansion from contraction since August 2021."Strong performance in both the manufacturing and service sectors, led by increased new orders, resulted in the highest composite output index since June 2010," noted Pranjul Bhandari, chief India economist at HSBC.
 
The news published on the date April 23, 2024 08:53 AM IST with headline  The challenge of balancing the energy mix is: 
 Representative image HighlightsThe Centre directed gas-based power plants to remain operational between May 1 and June 30Gas-based power has not taken off in India because of commercial reasonsThe Centre wants to leverage gas-based power to meet peaking and balancing needsSuch a move does not take care of the actual problem of GBSsThe government should focus on long-term steps for the power secto
 
The news published on the date April 23, 2024 08:40 AM IST with headline  IMF forecasts India will become fourth-largest economy by 2025, third by 2027 is: 
 - If the IMF projections given in its World Economic Outlook database for April 2024 are right, India will overtake Japan to become the fourth largest economy in the world by 2025 and overtake Germany to become the third largest by 2027, using the yardstick of GDP in current US dollars. See Chart 1.(image) China’s GDP, which was 65 percent of US GDP in 2023, is forecast to be 71 percent of US GDP in 2029.The strong economi
 
The news published on the date April 23, 2024 08:34 AM IST with headline  MC Inside Edge: Exide bulls make quiet exit, telecom story gains steam, retail options traders jittery, Angel’s problem of plenty is: 
 The outlook on the market has turned cautious in the run up to the general elections Powering aheadBulls are not showing any signs of fatigue yet in Exide, so the spot price seems to indicate. But derivatives data shows that bulls are unwinding their positions. Friendly circles and HNIs close to them have pared their positions after having made handsome returns, and they are finding plenty of retail investors to unload their stock on. Domestic fund managers, however, are learnt to be reluctant to buy the stock at higher levels. The more enterprising deep pocketed investors are betting that the stock may not sustain at higher levels. That could explain the steady rise in short positions in the NSE’s securities lending and borrowing window to over 2.2 million shares.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdDialling telecomEven as the outlook on the market has turned cautious in the run up to the general elections, one sector has caught the fancy of wealthy individual investors. The Vodafone FPO may have partly contributed to the change in sentiment. This, despite the Street being divided on the whether the latest round of fund raising by Vodafone can materially turn around the fortunes of the company. The bull argument for telecom goes something like this: the government is reluctant to allow a duopoly situation in the sector. By extension, it needs to ensure the survival of Vodafone. The other chatter is that telecom tariffs are likely to go up soon after the election results. If that happens, every player stands to benefit.
 
The news published on the date April 23, 2024 02:01 AM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | A matter of taste is: 
 The Indian government too has said it will ask the food safety authority to look into the matter and take appropriate action Dear Reader,Long-time shareholders of Nestle India must have skipped a heartbeat at last week’s developments. Its shares fell sharply after news of a Swiss NGO report which said the company’s baby food sold in India and other developing countries contained more sugar while similar products sold in European countries did not contain sugar.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe news spread through media outlets and social media, amplifying its impact on the stock price. The Indian government too has said it will ask the food safety authority to look into the matter and take appropriate action.Nestle’s response was that it makes these products in accordance with the Codex prescribed by WHO and ‘local specifications (as required)’. It also said it has voluntarily reduced sugar by up to 30 percent, depending on the variant. Both statements indicate a level of discretion available to it. It then finally said it reviews and reformulates products, and implies it will continue to do so, without compromising on nutrition, quality, safety and taste.Taste may come last in the list, but lowering sugar will lower taste, and as any parent of a food-spitting infant will tell you their palate grows an attitude at a very young age. Will this development have any lasting impact on Nestle? Unless Nestle has fallen foul of local laws, which is unlikely, it may suffer some short-term reputational damage, but not face any material legal risks.
 
The news published on the date April 22, 2024 11:33 AM IST with headline  India needs rate cuts to reach potential growth, say MPC members Jayanth Varma, Ashima Goyal is: 
 India needs rate cuts to reach potential growth, say MPC members Jayanth Varma, Ashima Goyal India needs to cut interest rates to help its economy reach its potential growth but the members of the South Asian nation's monetary policy committee (MPC) are divided on the timing of such cuts, interviews with two external members suggest."We are in a catch-up growth phase. Growth has to go up in order to create employment and jobs for young people, for the investment cycle to take off, and so on," Ashima Goyal, one of three external members on the six-member MPC, told Reuters.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"To the extent inflation is within our tolerance band and is approaching target, we have not yet reached potential. That means we can afford to grow at higher rates."However, Goyal said that with economic growth currently being robust -- at an estimated 7.6% for 2023/24 -- and several uncertainties on the inflation front, it was better to maintain stability and thus, a status quo on rates.Earlier this month, the MPC kept the lending rate steady at 6.5% for the seventh meeting in a row after having raised it by a total of 250 basis points between May 2022 and February 2023. The market expects rate cuts only in early 2025, with Morgan Stanley ruling out any cuts this fiscal year.
 
The news published on the date April 22, 2024 11:17 AM IST with headline  Chart of the Day | How do commodity markets adjust to shocks? is: 
 All major commodity baskets’ prices have turned more volatile, but food products have done relatively better compared to others such as energy and metals Commodity prices reflect the times: they are uncertain about where to go. Long-term forecasts often lie discarded by the wayside as geopolitics or climate events wreak havoc. While those in the market seek out reasons for why prices went up or down or what to make of the future, a chapter in the IMF’s World Economic Outlook April 2024 asks a very pertinent question: How fast do commodity markets adjust to shocks?(image) Pertinent, because this is precisel
 
The news published on the date April 22, 2024 11:21 AM IST with headline  Escorts Kubota to hike tractor prices from May, stock rises 2.3% is: 
 Following the announcement, the price of the tractor maker's stock went up by 2.33 percent to Rs 3,180.05 at 11:06 am on BSE today. Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × Escorts Kubota plans to raise the prices of its tractors from next month, the automaker announced on April 22 in an exchange filing.The firm said its agriculture machinery business division will hike the prices from May 1 and the change will be across its models and regions.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFollowing the announcement, the price of stock went up by 2.33 percent to Rs 3,180.05 at 11:06am on BSE on April 22.Early this month, the firm witnessed a fall of 16 percent in its March 2024 sales compared to March 2023, according to its business update.According to the company, the decline in sales was because of the shift in Chaitra Navratri festival to April, last season’s erratic monsoon and low reservoir water levels. The automaker said these factors affected the agricultural sentiments in central and southern regions of the country, which delayed the harvesting of rabi crops.“As early signs point to an above-average monsoon in FY25, we anticipate that demand will stabilise post-elections,” the April 1 had filing said
 
The news published on the date April 22, 2024 03:14 PM IST with headline  ‘Antyodaya' goes much beyond welfare economics, it's  about an alternative development model is: 
 The study uses a multidimensional poverty index (MPI) which consists of 12 indicators of poverty clubbed under three groups – health, education, and standard of living (Sanghnomics is a weekly column that tracks down and demystifies the economic world view of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and organisations inspired by its ideology.)‘Antoyadaya’ has become a much talked about concept ever since the Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) government came to power in 2014. The concept of ‘Antyodaya’ has become the cornerstone of the economic policies of BJP governments -- both at the Centre and the state level. Several schemes have been launched under the umbrella of ‘Antyodaya’. The literal meaning of Antyodaya is ‘rise of the last person’. For all practical purposes as far as the government policies are concerned, it means there should be focus on upliftment and empowerment of those who are languishing at the last rung of the socio-economic ladder. The Modi government has implemented this concept by launching schemes for skill development as well as for providing highly subsidised ration to around 80 million people in the country. It has already promised to continue it for next five years if it comes back to power for a third consecutive term in 2024 which seems highly likely.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPioneering the concept of ‘Antyodaya’Deendayal Upadhyay, a full-time worker of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) had pioneered the concept of ‘Antyodaya’. He did this while steering Bharatiya Janasangh(BJS), the predecessor of Bharatiya Janata Party. Upadhyay who was an ideologue and organiser par excellence talked about ‘Antyodaya’ in the 1960s when there was no immediate scope of BJS, the ideological mentee of the RSS, capturing the power. Since then the BJS and subsequently the BJP stuck to the concept of ‘Antoyadaya’. Wherever the party came to power, it tried to implement this concept.Beyond welfare schemes
 
The news published on the date April 22, 2024 11:30 AM IST with headline  MC Inside Edge: Swan Energy bulls await RNEL relisting, finserv stock turns retail pet, PMS gets inspired by operators' trick, tail wagging dog in options trading? is: 
 - Movers and shakersDalal Street is never short of conspiracy theories on days of big market moves. It's no surprise then that Thursday’s sudden U-turn in the benchmark indices is still being hotly debated. The popular theory was that on that day the unexpected drop had been caused by a fat finger trade. Meaning a dealer punched in a wrong quantity to sell, which sent other algos in the system into a tizzy. But since no fat-fingered dealer could be found, another theory is gaining currency, that the fall was triggered by some large foreign fund or a group acting in collusion, who stood to make huge gains from their weekly options positions if the spot market fell. Murmurs of this kind of manipulation have been doing the rounds for a while, just that they have gotten louder of late.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFor a few dollars moreChatter is that the relisting of Reliance Naval Engineering shares will be the next trigger for the Swan Energy stock. The allotment process is over, but the listing of shares right away is not a given, this diarist learns. That is because the insiders believe that the true valuation of RNEL is much higher and that a regular relisting around the same price it was delisted at, will take a long time for ‘fair value’ discovery. Hectic parleys are on to see if there could be some workaround. Most institutional investors have already loaded up on the stock. New believers will start coming in only once the RNEL shares get listed.
 
The news published on the date April 22, 2024 08:23 AM IST with headline  What the IMF forecasts say about India’s economic growth is: 
 This sluggishness in external demand is reflected in comparatively tepid growth in investment Will the Indian economy revert to the strong growth prevailing during most of the first decade of this century? The IMF’s latest projections show that while India’s economic growth will be robust, it will be very different from that during the noughties.The IMF’s latest World Economic Outlook database shows that after a strong 7.8 percent GDP growth in 2023-24, growth is forecast to be less than 7 percent in the years till 2029. In contrast, GDP growt
 
The news published on the date April 22, 2024 08:08 AM IST with headline  MPC minutes: The many reasons for not cutting rates is: 
 - The minutes of the last Monetary Policy Committee meeting have been described as "hawkish’’ and "cautious’’. But the question is: what are the reasons for being cautious when inflation, especially core inflation, is on a downward trajectory? Why is it that, despite falling inflation, the MPC has not only avoided all talk of cutting rates, but has not even changed its stance from restrictive to neutral? The MPC meeting minutes have some answers to these questions.MPC dissente
 
The news published on the date April 22, 2024 07:55 AM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Market Outlook: Amid Middle East tensions, signs of a potential rebound is: 
 Indian equity markets concluded the previous week in negative territory, reflecting prevailing apprehensions and broader market volatility Dear Reader,The global financial markets experienced significant turbulence following the weekend's aerial assault launched by Iran against Israel. Concerns over the potential escalation into a full-scale conflict in the Middle East triggered a wave of panic selling across global equity markets. Concurrently, apprehensions regarding disruptions to global oil supplies emanating from the world's largest oil-producing region led to a notable uptick in oil prices. Investors sought refuge in gold, driving its value to a historic peak amid heightened uncertainty.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFriday started on a weak note amid rumours of an attack on a nuclear facility in Iran, which initially dampened market sentiment. However, subsequent denial of such events by the Iranian government facilitated a sharp rebound in market confidence. Nevertheless, Indian equity markets concluded the week in negative territory, reflecting prevailing apprehensions and broader market volatility.High probability of a dead cat bounceAfter four consecutive weeks of gains, the Nifty index concluded the week on a downtrend. Despite this decline, it managed to maintain its position above the 20-week average mark of 21,921. Notably, the weekly momentum indicators continue to display a bearish trend with a downward trajectory.
 
The news published on the date April 21, 2024 02:53 PM IST with headline  India bats for designing regional ocean observations to better understand deep ecosystems is: 
 India had convened the Indian Ocean Regional Decade Conference in Hyderabad in February to deliberate on ocean decade challenges and steps to address the same. Amid challenges posed by climate change, India has made a strong pitch for designing region-specific ocean observations for forecasting and roping in NGOs to harness traditional knowledge for better understanding of deep-sea ecosystems At the 2024 Ocean Decade Conference in Barcelona earlier this month, India also called for people-centred multi-hazard early warning systems and designing adaptation planning strategies to increase coastal resilience.The Indian delegation to the Conference was led by Earth Sciences Secretary M Ravichandran and comprised experts in the area of ocean studies, including T Srinivasa Kumar, Director of the Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS). Ravichandran also urged integration of ocean observation systems across platforms in accessible and usable formats, bringing focus on use of science for policy and decision making by coastal cities and a greater emphasis on region specific ocean observations.Story continues below AdvertisementIndia had convened the Indian Ocean Regional Decade Conference in Hyderabad in February to deliberate on ocean decade challenges and steps to address the same. At the Barcelona conference, India also stressed on increasing bio-geo-chemical and coastal observations and the need to reinvigorate ocean data management programs such as the International Oceanographic Data and Information Exchange (IODE), the digital twins and capacity development hub initiatives. Ravichandran also stressed on the need to design regional projects such as ocean forecasting that demonstrate the end-to-end operational ocean value chain to user communities.He also underscored the need to align existing and future initiatives with the UN Ocean Decade Challenges. Ravichandran said there was a need of bringing traditional knowledge through involvement of NGOs, local communities, and industry partners in ocean literacy and other related programs.The United Nations had proclaimed 2021-30 as the UN Decade of Ocean Science for Sustainable Development to stimulate knowledge generation to reverse the decline of the state of ocean systems and catalyse new opportunities for sustainable development of the massive marine ecosystem
 
The news published on the date April 21, 2024 02:21 PM IST with headline  Insurance regulator IRDAI abolishes age restriction on health insurance product is: 
 Consequently, insurers are prohibited from refusing to issue policies to individuals with severe medical conditions like cancer, heart or renal failure, and AIDS. With a view to widen the market and foster adequate protection from healthcare expenses, insurance regulator IRDAI has removed the age limit of 65 years for individuals buying health insurance policies. This marks a significant departure from the conventional constraints that limited individuals in securing comprehensive coverage.By abolishing the maximum age restriction on purchasing health insurance plans, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) aims to foster a more inclusive and accessible healthcare ecosystem, ensuring adequate protection against unforeseen medical expenses. As per the earlier guidelines, individuals were allowed to purchase a new insurance policy only till the age of 65. However, with the recent amendment, which has been effective from April 1, anyone, regardless of age, is eligible to buy a new health insurance policy.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn a recent gazette notification, IRDAI said, "insurers shall ensure that they offer health insurance products to cater to all age groups. Insurers may design products specifically for senior citizens, students, children, maternity, and any other group as specified by the Competent Authority." Besides, insurers have been mandated to offer health policies to individuals with pre-existing medical conditions of any kind.Consequently, insurers are prohibited from refusing to issue policies to individuals with severe medical conditions like cancer, heart or renal failure, and AIDS. According to the notification, insurers are allowed to offer premium payment in instalments for the convenience of policyholders.Travel policies can only be offered by general and health insurers, it said. There is no limit on AYUSH treatment coverage. Treatments under systems like Ayurveda, Yoga, Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha, and Homeopathy will receive coverage up to the sum insured without any cap, it said.
 
The news published on the date April 21, 2024 06:46 PM IST with headline  Iran-Israel conflict: Strait of Hormuz blockade could trigger Oil and LNG price surge, analysts warn is: 
 Crude oil prices have hovered around $90 per barrel since the Iran-Israel conflict. Analysts have warned that if Iran were to block the Strait of Hormuz, a vital passage for countries like India to import crude oil from Saudi Arabia, Iraq, and the UAE, both oil and LNG prices could soar, potentially leading to inflation spikes.The conflict between Iran and Israel has intensified in recent days, marked by Iran's drone and rocket attacks on Israel, which prompted retaliatory missile strikes.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWith crude oil prices hovering around $90 per barrel amid the conflict, Motilal Oswal Financial Services suggested in a note that while efforts to de-escalate the situation may mitigate the crisis, any complete or partial blockade of the Strait of Hormuz by Iran could trigger significant spikes in oil and LNG prices.While alternative routes through the Red Sea exist for oil transportation, there are no such alternatives for liquefied natural gas (LNG), according to the analysis. In the event of blockade of the Strait, "we anticipate materially higher crude oil prices, refining margins, and spot LNG prices", it said. "While investors focus on oil, we believe that spot LNG prices will witness even sharper escalation if the Strait of Hormuz is closed due to the absence of alternative routes," it also said.According to reports, alternative routes might only be capable of handling a small portion (approximately 7-8 million bpd of crude oil/refined products) of the current volume transiting through the Strait (21 million bpd), and even then, at increased freight expenses.
 
The news published on the date April 19, 2024 06:06 PM IST with headline  India govt open to selling stake in GIC Re, LIC in FY24/25, says source is: 
 India govt open to selling stake in GIC Re, LIC in FY24/25, says source The Indian government is open to a minority stake sale in General Insurance Corporation of India GENA.NS (GIC) and Life Insurance Corporation of India LIFI.NS (LIC) in financial year 2024/25 after assessing investor appetite, a government source told Reuters on Friday.“The government has received good feedback in investor roadshows for GIC, and is open to sell its 10% stake in tranches depending on its shares' value,” the official said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe sale of 10% stake in GIC would be done over a period of time, the official said, garnering about 57 billion rupees ($683 million), as per the closing price on Friday. India's fiscal year runs April through March.Shares of GIC have risen about 45% in the last six months.For LIC, the government plans to stick to its target of offloading 10% stake over 7 years and 25% over 10 years since the listing in 2022, the source said.However, LIC stakes would be sold in "small" tranches depending on the insurer’s stock performance and gauging investor appetite, the source said. Shares of country's largest insurer have jumped 58% in the last six months and closed at 973 rupees on Friday.
 
The news published on the date April 21, 2024 07:10 PM IST with headline  Business in the Week Ahead: April 22-26 is: 
 Earnings The March 2024 quarter earnings season began on a subdued note. Constant currency revenues at Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), India’s largest IT services company, grew by a tepid 2.2 percent. Infosys did not see any growth on a year-on-year basis in the March quarter. The subdued performances underscore the growth challenges in key business vertical of financial services.The coming week will see results from wide set of companies. Reliance Industries, Hindustan Unilever, Nestl
 
The news published on the date April 19, 2024 01:19 PM IST with headline  Russia squeezes Mideast, OPEC shares in India's oil market to historic lows is: 
 Saudi Arabia needs oil price near $100, IMF says Russia became the top oil supplier to India during the fiscal year 2023/24 for a second year in a row, squeezing the market share of Middle Eastern and OPEC producers to historic lows, ship tracking data from industry sources showed.New Delhi has been gorging on Russian oil sold at a discount after Western nations shunned purchases and imposed sanctions on Moscow over its invasion of Ukraine. As a result Russia is now the top supplier to the world's third-largest oil importer.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndia has continued to buy Russian oil despite problems posed by a raft of sanctions aimed at reducing Moscow's oil revenue to fund the war.Russia is an ally of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) but it has eaten into the share of India's crude diet from key OPEC producers in the Middle East.Russian oil accounted for about 35% of India's overall 4.7 million barrels per day (bpd) crude imports in the fiscal year to March 31 compared with about 22% a year ago, the data shows.
 
The news published on the date April 19, 2024 10:58 AM IST with headline  India a standout performer amidst sluggish global growth trends: India's Economic Affairs Secretary tells WB committee is: 
 India a standout performer amidst sluggish global growth trends: India's Economic Affairs Secretary tells WB committee Despite a challenging global scenario, India's economy has shown robust growth over the past year backed by sustained consumption and investment demand, a top Indian official told members of a World Bank committee here.The GDP growth estimate for the fiscal, which has been revised upwards from 7.3 per cent to 7.6 per cent in the second advance estimates, highlights the enduring strength and resilience of the Indian economy, India's Economic Affairs Secretary Ajay Seth said while addressing the Development Committee meeting here on Thursday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"India grew above 8 per cent for three consecutive quarters of FY24, reaffirming its position as a standout performer amidst sluggish global growth trends," Seth said.He said that similar sentiments have been echoed by various agencies who have revised India's fiscal 24 growth estimate closer to 8 per cent. India's proactive stance on reform and investment in sustainable growth avenues sets a benchmark for emerging economies.The Indian delegation at the annual Spring Meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank is being represented at the official level this time. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is not attending the annual gathering of global financial leaders due to the ongoing Lok Sabha elections.
 
The news published on the date April 19, 2024 09:11 AM IST with headline  How to add mojo to India’s goods exports? is: 
 Representative image HighlightsIndia’s FY24 goods exports slightly lower than last fiscal yearCurrent geopolitical tensions impacted India’s goods exportsHigher freight and insurance costs are a headache for exportersIndia needs to take contingency steps to tackle the present crisisLong-term steps need to be formulated to up India’s share in global trad
 
The news published on the date April 19, 2024 08:45 AM IST with headline  US rate cuts look like a distant dream, India’s stock markets face a tough time ahead is: 
 Nifty has remained flat in April so far, thanks to the tremendous support (amounting to Rs 19,000 Crore) lent by DIIs during the FII exodus The March inflation print for the US came in at 3.5%, yet again higher than expectations. Core inflation was even higher at 3.8% year-on-year. Notwithstanding record high interest-rates, shelter prices in the US have been stubbornly rising and came in at 5.7% in March. Services inflation too has persisted above 5%, contrary to the Fed’s expectations. Matters have been made worse by the recent rise in energy prices.Meanwhile, the US economy has remained resilient. So, persistent indication
 
The news published on the date April 18, 2024 08:54 PM IST with headline  Israel-Iran conflict: Will take all steps required to reduce impact on India, says Sitharaman is: 
 Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman All necessary steps required to mitigate the fallout of the Israel-Iran conflict on India will be taken, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said during an interview with CNBC Awaaz on April 18.Sitharaman said the government will act as and when required.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Can't say that we are fully ready. As developments unfold, we are preparing to take adequate steps in India's interests," the minister said during the interview.On April 13, tensions in the Middle East escalated after Iran fired drones and missiles on Israel in an unprecedented revenge attack.A fallout of the rise in tensions could be the surge in crude oil prices. The global crude oil prices are yet to react negatively. However, any further escalation could push the prices higher, which could balloon India’s import bill as the world’s third-biggest oil importer ships in about 85 percent of its needs.
 
The news published on the date April 18, 2024 07:09 PM IST with headline  Modi’s 100-day agenda includes $1.2 bn plan for new cities is: 
 Narendra Modi during a campaign rally in Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu. Photo: Bloomberg Indian government officials are discussing proposals to subsidize interest on home loans, create new urban centers and reduce bankruptcy delays as part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 100-day agenda if he returns to office, people familiar with the matter said.The plans include setting up about 10 new cities to expand manufacturing and services sectors while also easing population congestion, the officials said, asking not to be identified as the talks are private. The project will need initial funding of about 100 billion rupees ($1.2 billion), the people said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRead more: A look at high-stakes contests in first phaseThe proposals expand on the goals outlined in the ruling party’s election manifesto released this week, which pledged to boost manufacturing and improve living conditions in India’s cities. Modi said at the launch of the manifesto he’d instructed officials to begin work on programs to be implemented in his first 100 days in office, showing his confidence in returning to office for a third consecutive term in elections that kick off on Friday.Officials are also discussing plans for a new interest subsidy scheme on loans for affordable homes, which was first announced by Modi last year, the people said. The subsidy is aimed at driving growth in the real estate sector.
 
The news published on the date April 18, 2024 03:04 PM IST with headline  China’s magical growth of 5.3 percent has puzzled the Chinese is: 
 As China undergoes structural transitions, it’s becoming harder to read the economy and figure out when and where it bottoms. China’s first-quarter 5.3 percent growth handily beat expectations and Beijing’s own target of “around 5 percent.” But if you ask households, companies and even the taxman, the reality on the ground feels a lot less rosy.By the end of 2023, only 9.5 percent saw good job prospects, according to the central bank’s latest urban depositor survey. Preparing for rainy days, households added 8.6 trillion yuan ($1.2 trillion) in their savings in the first quarter, prompting some banks to discontinue long-term fixed-income offerings to protect their margins. The CSI 2000 Index, whose small-cap companies are more sensitive to business cycles, is down 20 percent for the year. Meanwhile, as of February, government fiscal revenue fell 2.3 percent from a year ago.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAccusations that China is cooking its economic-expansion statistics have been around for decades. But to understand its economy and political system better, one should try to reconcile and make sense of the difference between the headline number and people’s daily perceptions. As far as I can see, two forces are at play.First, the economy is experiencing its longest deflationary streak since 1999. As such, the 5.3 percent increase in real gross domestic product doesn’t offer useful insights into stagnant income growth experienced by workers and corporations, whose earnings are in yuan terms. Indeed, in the first quarter, nominal GDP notched only 4.2 percent. Household disposable income increased by 6.2 percent, well below pre-pandemic levels.Manufacturing was the main growth engine, driven by strong exports and new energy-related investments. The 6.4 percent increase validated President Xi Jinping’s conviction that high-end industrial upgrades can eventually replace real estate’s prominent role and pull his economy out of its slump.
 
The news published on the date April 18, 2024 03:19 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Are policymakers caught in an inflation trap? is: 
 While core inflation is rapidly falling, food inflation is elevated, making the targeted 4 per cent inflation an arduous journey. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Recent readings on inflation across countries are baffling. Central bankers who were euphoric with the rebound in economic growth after the COVID-19 pandemic, are now scratching their heads for a solution to tame the inflation beast. The refrain from bankers across countries is “higher for longer” with no defined range for what could be “longer”!Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTo be sure, the reasons for high inflation are varied. In the US, a roaring economy, strong labour market and vibrant retail consumption are preventing inflation from cooling off to the targeted 2 per cent. In India, while core inflation is rapidly falling, food inflation is elevated, making the targeted 4 per cent inflation an arduous journey. Latest numbers in the UK showed that while inflation did come down, it is not coming down as quickly as expected. Ditto for most countries.These unending discussions over inflation are grabbing media headlines mainly because of central banks’ decision to stick steadfast to their respective targeted inflation rates, before they start pivoting on rates and start cutting them. The question is: Are higher rates inflationary? This FT piece (free to read for Pro subscribers) has more.In fact, with every reading of growth and inflation, the expectations on rate cuts are being pushed ahead. Market consensus is pointing to a maximum of two rate cuts in the US this year, from what was four to five at the beginning of 2024. “The great bet on rate cuts — and it was enormous — is dead,” says this FT article.
 
The news published on the date April 18, 2024 02:50 PM IST with headline  Global future will not be driven by big tech but by India's DPI: Amitabh Kant is: 
 Global future will not be driven by big tech but by India's DPI: Amitabh Kant India's G-20 sherpa Amitabh Kant on Thursday said the global future will not be driven by big technology firms but by the digital public infrastructure platforms developed locally.Speaking at the 'We Made in India' event here, Kant said India will transfer its digital public infrastructure (DPI) to the rest of the world, and already there are many examples of countries warming up to the same.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe DPI consists of the digital identity through Aadhaar, real time payment through the UPI platform and other services like account aggregator, and was showcased to the world during India's presidency of G-20 last year.Kant said during the G-20, the world accepted the definition and framework of the DPI, given the strides that India has made through its strategies."During G-20, the world accepted the definition of digital public infra, the world accepted the framework of DPI and to our belief, the future will not be driven by big tech, it will be driven by DPI," he said.
 
The news published on the date April 18, 2024 01:37 PM IST with headline  Volumes of domestic mining, construction equipment industry may drop in FY'25: Icra is: 
 Volumes of domestic mining, construction equipment industry may drop in FY'25: Icra Rating agency ICRA on Thursday said the volumes of domestic mining and the construction equipment (MCE) industry may drop in the current financial year on account of a slowdown in the new project orders amidst Lok Sabha elections and monsoon-related impact on construction activities."ICRA expects FY2025 to see a 12-15 per cent year-on-year decline (which translates into volumes of 1.14-1.18 lakh units)," the rating agency said in a statement.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThis drop is following two consecutive years of strong growth of 26 per cent in FY'23 and 24 per cent in FY'24."The reversal in this growth trend will be driven by a slowdown in the new project award activity in Q4 FY2024 and Q1 FY2025, as the Model Code of Conduct will remain in force during the Parliamentary Elections in April-May 2024 (till the announcement of results on June 4, 2024)."Additionally, the aggregate revenues for ICRA's sample set companies are expected to contract by 9-12 per cent and operating margins by 100-150 basis points in FY2025," the statement said.
 
The news published on the date April 18, 2024 01:12 PM IST with headline  The great bet on rate cuts is off is: 
 How did everyone manage to get so carried away with the notion that rates were poised for an aggressive chop? Katie MartinWelcome to what Goldman Sachs is calling “reflation desperation”. For policymakers and investors, this will be a nauseating and probably lengthy ride.The embarrassing reset has come about because it turns out the inflation dragon had not been slain after all, despite markets in effect calling victory over it late last year.One punchy US consumer price index inflation reading may be regarded as a misfortune. Two looks like carelessness. Three in three months, as we have now
 
The news published on the date April 18, 2024 01:10 PM IST with headline  What China’s jibe about Elon Musk’s pivot to India reveals is: 
 The Modi government in India is certainly doing its bit to pave Musk’s entry here. (File photo) Like much of the world, Elon Musk has decided that he too will 'make in India'.We may not have known of Musk’s tilt towards Bharat but for his rather public declaration on ‘X’ which is of course a platform he owns.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhile Musk has let it be known that he will be meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the coming days, he hasn’t opened his cards just yet. But it’s being reliably speculated that Musk would in all probability set up a plant to manufacture his Tesla EV motor car in India.Make no mistake, Musk's pivot to India is prompted by unalloyed self-interest. His EV manufacturing base in the communist redoubt has spluttered over the last few months. Local EV manufacturers have out-zipped Tesla sales in China. Worse, Tesla is trailing in the Chinese EV-car sales sweepstakes at a time when there has been a general slowdown in demand. In short, parked in lots, gathering rust, Musk’s Teslas are on a road to nowhere in China and that’s bad for business. The situation is so precarious that there is an urgent need to cut overheads prompting a 10 per cent job cut across Tesla motors.Musk is naturally hoping that Indian consumers will help his Tesla motors accelerate out of the rough patch.
 
The news published on the date April 18, 2024 12:26 PM IST with headline  Asian currencies can't fight the dollar on a rampage is: 
 Ideal or not, this is the reality of a world where one currency is truly first among equals. Paul O'Neill, a Treasury secretary under George W Bush, ran into controversy on his first overseas trip when he had the temerity to question the often celebrated, and sometimes bemoaned, strong-dollar policy. O'Neill inherited the mantra from the Clinton years and regarded it as little more than rhetoric. That doctrine won accolades at home, but was considered unhelpful abroad, especially in Asia.What the US really had, O'Neill argued, was a strong-economy policy. If growth was robust, relative to others, that would be reflected in the value of the greenback. If it waned, then the dollar would decline. People should just chill. That advice is as good today in Tokyo, Seoul, Jakarta and New Delhi as it was a few decades ago. Contemporary Treasury officials don't talk — and aren't pestered — as much about foreign-exchange policy as their predecessors. But the strong dollar sure exists in practice, and it reflects a surprisingly resilient American economy. Nations on the receiving end in 2024 have no great choices, but aren't totally powerless.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe rally this year wasn't supposed to happen. Many forecasters predicted a pullback, premised on indications from the Federal Reserve that inflation was retreating sufficiently, and the economy cooling enough, to warrant some reduction in interest rates. Now, Fed officials are having doubts. After some very encouraging declines in the pace of price increases, progress has been disappointing recently. The job market remains muscular, retail sales are doing well, and manufacturing is reviving. Chair Jerome Powell signaled Tuesday that borrowing costs will need to remain high for longer. This is a setback for the Fed, but a boon for the dollar.The shift is reverberating through Asia. The Indian rupee fell to a record low Tuesday. Indonesia waded into the market to back the rupiah and South Korea issued a rare warning about pushing the won too low. Japan has been trying to cushion the yen's fall by foreshadowing steps; a weaker yen pushes up the cost of energy imports, Japan is a big consumer. Despite a historic rate increase last month by the Bank of Japan, which was supposed to turn around the currency, it slumped to a fresh 34-year low. Japan hasrefrained from its maximum, direct threats of intervention. The government may yet get there, but the prudence is wise. The last thing you want is to directly fight the dollar when it is on a rampage. Best to pick your moment.When I was responsible for Bloomberg's currency news from 2003 to 2006, intervention from Japan was common. It had been standard practice for decades to massage fluctuations in the yen, mainly preventing it from strengthening too far. Regardless of specifics, I would often hear the cry of “intervention never works” because the underlying trajectory of a particular currency usually wasn't reset. But broad assessments of success or failure can brush over important nuance. Often the goal isn't to turn around the fortunes of a currency on a long-term basis. Officials may be aiming to manage a decline or appreciation, rather than prevent it. They may also be seeking to inject a bit of two-way drama, to make sure traders don't think the action is all one way. Such an approach can be useful in buying time.
 
The news published on the date April 18, 2024 11:51 AM IST with headline  After Maldives, Bangladesh sees an ‘India Out’ campaign; why New Delhi must stop China from taking advantage is: 
 India's Prime Minister Modi with Bangladesh's PM Hasina at Shahjalal International Airport in Dhaka. After the Maldives, an “India Out” campaign is steadily picking up momentum in Bangladesh where New Delhi’s stakes are many times bigger and higher than in the tiny Indian Ocean state. The hard-hitting campaign in Maldives cost our close and dependable ally Ibrahim Mohammed Solih the presidency and installed the China-leaning Mohamed Muizzu, who is cold-bloodedly taking the island nation into Beijing’s orbit and proving to be more than a handful for our overworked diplomatic and security establishments.Considering the regime change in the archipelago, it would be unwise on the part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government to be casual about what’s going on in Bangladesh.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe “India Out” campaign exhorts Bangladeshis to meticulously boycott all Indian products imported and sold in the country in order to teach New Delhi a “lesson”. The movement kicked off barely 10 days after Awami League’s Sheikh Hasina was sworn in as Prime Minister for a fourth straight term in a blatantly one-sided election, with its sponsors accusing India of keeping her in power to serve its own political, strategic and economic interests at the cost of Bangladeshis, imperilling democracy and Bangladesh’s sovereignty.The campaign is mainly being driven on social media, and hashtags #IndiaOut, #BoycottIndia and #BoycottIndianProducts are trending on Facebook, mirroring deep-rooted resentment against us in our backyard, which is undoubtedly an ominous development given the priority we accord our immediate neighbourhood.Start of the ‘India Out’ Movement
 
The news published on the date April 18, 2024 08:39 AM IST with headline  Global policymakers must heed IMF’s warnings on private credit is: 
 IMF warns on rising private credit market HighlightsIMF warns on risks from rising private credit flows globally in its financial stability reportThe fund estimates global private credit size to be over $2 trillionIMF prescribes policymakers to increase disclosures from private credit investors, borrowersThe fund also wants regulators to cooperate and share information to regulate cross-border transactionsIndia’s private credit market is growing, SEBI and RBI have increased oversigh
 
The news published on the date April 18, 2024 07:03 AM IST with headline  US senators object to wheat, rice subsidies in India; USTR says market access to India has improved is: 
 US senators object to wheat, rice subsidies in India; USTR says market access to India has improved India has opened up its market to the American farming industry in as many as 12 different categories, a top Biden administration trade official told lawmakers on Wednesday as some influential senators raised the issue of wheat and rice subsidies in India and alleged forced labour in the country's shrimp industry.US Trade Representative (USTR) Katherine Tie, responding to a series of questions from the senators during a congressional hearing on trade convened by the US Finance Committee, defended the Biden administration's actions.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"We are opening markets for hard-working American families and communities, especially our rural communities. Through negotiations, our administration has secured over USD 21 billion in new agricultural market access in the last three years," she said."For example, after the US and India terminated seven WTO disputes, India agreed to remove retaliatory tariffs on several US products. This means improved access for chickpeas, lentils, almonds, walnuts and apples, benefiting farmers across our country, including in Michigan, Oregon, California and Washington," Tie said.This means more market access for turkey, duck, blueberries and cranberries benefiting the farmers in North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Massachusetts and Minnesota, she added.
 
The news published on the date April 17, 2024 08:43 PM IST with headline  Dollar eases, still close to 5-1/2 month high on Fed, Mideast focus is: 
 Dollar eases, still close to 5-1/2 month high on Fed, Mideast focus The dollar eased from near 5-1/2-month highs on Wednesday as Federal Reserve officials reiterated the rate-cutting cycle was on hold pending new economic data, while the monetary easing outlook for major central banks was roughly unchanged.Top U.S. central bank officials, including Fed Chair Jerome Powell, backed away on Tuesday from providing fresh guidance on when interest rates may be cut, saying instead that monetary policy needed to be restrictive for longer.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRecent data shows the U.S. economy remains stronger than expected, leading investors to reduce their bets on future rate cuts. Meanwhile, risks of a broadening Middle East conflict have added to the dollar's safe-haven appeal in the short term.Powell "needed to come back into the center. He was definitely one of the more dovish voices out there," said Marvin Loh, senior macro strategist at State Street in Boston. "He can't afford to be the outlier when he's the chairman."After last week's hotter-than-expected report on the U.S. Consumer Price Index (CPI), the market has reduced the number of quarter-point interest rate cuts by the Fed this year to less than two, with the first likely in September.
 
The news published on the date April 17, 2024 07:09 PM IST with headline  'UPA govt wanted RBI as its cheerleader': BJP's Smriti Irani on ex-RBI Governor's memoir is: 
 Union minister Smriti Irani Union minister and BJP leader Smriti Irani on April 16 accused Congress for ‘institutional abuse’ during its rule between 2004 and 2014 after former Reserve Bank of India governor D Subbarao in his soon-to-be released memoir claimed that senior government ministers used to pressurise him to present a ‘rosy picture’ of the Indian economy.“When the grand old Congress party wanted Reserve Bank as the Government’s Cheerleader to hoodwink people of India…The revelations from former RBI Governor Subbarao’s memoir provide a glaring instance of the institutional abuse perpetrated by the Congress. The misconduct not only endangered our institutions but also underscores Congress’s penchant for deceit over national interest,” the women and child development minister said on X.When the grand old Congress party wanted Reserve Bank as the Government’s Cheerleader to hoodwink people of IndiaStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe revelations from former RBI Governor Subbarao’s memoir provide a glaring instance of the institutional abuse perpetrated by the…— Smriti Z Irani (Modi Ka Parivar) (@smritiirani
 
The news published on the date April 17, 2024 04:42 PM IST with headline  Cherry blossoms to cheap Yen spur record tourist visits to Japan is: 
 Cherry blossoms to cheap Yen spur record tourist visits to Japan Japan hosted a record number of tourists in March as the country’s early start to cherry blossom season and a weakening yen drew in holidaymakers.Visitors totaled 3.1 million in March, up almost 70% from a year earlier, and led by South Korea, Taiwan and China, according to the Japan National Tourism Organization. Tourist numbers from 17 markets reached a record for March, including the US, Vietnam and India.Story continues below AdvertisementJapan has been a popular travel destination for many Asian tourists looking to shake off years of pandemic-era controls. The cherry blossom season, which historically sees trees bloom around late-March, is a popular time to visit for many people and this year coincided with Easter holidays.The extended slump in the yen, now trading near a 34-year low against the dollar, has also helped attract visitors while simultaneously hurting outbound travel demand for Japanese.The figures also show the uneven pace of recovery for outbound Chinese tourism. While they’re the third-biggest group of visitors to Japan, with a near six-fold growth in March from a year earlier, the number of arrivals from China still remains below pre-Covid levels.Foreign visitors to Japan spent 1.75 trillion yen ($11.3 billion) in the January to March period, an increase of 52% from 2019, according to data from the Japan Tourist Agency
 
The news published on the date April 17, 2024 06:49 PM IST with headline  Former RBI chief D Subbarao warns against premature celebration of India's economic rise, urges focus on per capita income disparity is: 
 India may still remain poor even after becoming 3rd largest economy: Ex-RBI chief D Subbarao Former Reserve Bank Governor D Subbarao, speaking at a book launch event, cautioned against premature celebration of India's projected rise to the third-largest economy by 2029, as outlined by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. However, Subbarao emphasized that as India's vast population contributes to its economic size, the country is likely to remain impoverished despite hitting the milestone.He highlighted India's position as the fifth-largest economy globally, with a GDP of $4 trillion but noted its low per capita income of $2,600, placing it 139th internationally.Story continues below AdvertisementAdditionally, he emphasized that India is the least affluent among both BRICS and G-20 nations."In my view, that is possible (India becoming the third-largest economy), but it's not a celebration. Why? We are a large economy because we are 1.40 billion people. And people are a factor of production. So we are a large economy because we have people. But we are still a poor country," Subbarao said.Subbarao underscored the need to accelerate growth and ensure equitable distribution of benefits. Additionally, he recalled PM Modi's vision for India to become a developed nation by 2047, outlining the essential elements of rule of law, a robust state, accountability, and independent institutions as prerequisites for achieving this goal
 
The news published on the date April 17, 2024 04:33 PM IST with headline  Central bankers should retire the 2 percent inflation target is: 
 A flexible inflation range that reflects reality should supersede an unhealthy fixation on one constant. With the end of great inflation scare in sight, it's time the central bank hive mind contemplated what it might learn from the failure of its economic models.The most obvious lesson: Steering multitrillion-dollar economies to land with laser precision onto a 2 percent inflation pin needs to be abandoned. Economic and geopolitical uncertainty necessitates a monetary system that can roll with the punches. A flexible inflation range that reflects reality should supersede an unhealthy fixation on one constant. Trying to fit all economic variables around one peg is futile.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdI don’t mean that inflation should be allowed to rip. But price targeting could be put back where it belongs — as part of a wider monetary policy toolkit, not the one-tool-to-rule-them-all. The better solution lies in a combination of fiscal policy restraint and using a selection of monetary instruments — back to the future, if you will, as ranges used to be the norm. Happily, there is a recent precedent that the Federal Reserve trialed in the early part of Chair Jerome Powell's tenure.Flexible Average Inflation Targeting was introduced by the Federal Open Market Committee in August 2020. It was abandoned amid the pandemic and surge in energy prices before it really had a chance to embed. Its initial aim was to allow the economy to run a little hot if the preceding period had been of too-low inflation, or indeed vice versa. No doubt with hindsight there may have been some drawbacks but a calm dissembling of what could work better in a more normal environment would be practical.An external energy inflation shock evidently meant it wasn't the right time to fiddle with a new monetary regime. Now that it's subsided, a rethink is in order. A gradual wider range could deliver more predictable results. This could be tweaked if changing economic conditions dictated — without upending the benefits that rigorous inflation targeting have afforded for commercial and investment planning.
 
The news published on the date April 17, 2024 10:49 AM IST with headline  Social media's age limits won't protect your kids is: 
 Social media isn’t going anywhere, and teens are going to use it. Momentum has been building to force social media companies to make their products safer for kids. But some of the solutions getting the most attention, while well intended, don’t address the underlying problem: the way these apps prey on developing brains.A new report from the American Psychological Association highlights solutions that follow the science. That’s an important message for policymakers, parents and the companies themselves. Because if we want to see meaningful improvements, we need to focus on what’s actually causing the harm. That’s not necessarily the age of children on social media — the focus of many current policy efforts — but the products’ features, and how those features affect young minds.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAs the APA report points out, the teen brain is still learning skills like impulse control, planning and prioritization. That makes them especially vulnerable to the infinite scroll or the pull of followers, “likes” and “shares.” And some are particularly susceptible to harmful content or bad actors.The brief list of recommendations from the APA follows its social media advisory from last year, which demanded better science about how platforms like TikTok and Instagram affect kids’ brains. But some of the responses from policymakers and thought leaders were not always aligned with the science, says Mitch Prinstein, the APA’s chief science officer. Too much of the policy focus narrowed to a simple idea: age limits.But drawing a bright line on age is not a cure-all. Turning 13 (or for that matter, 16) does not make someone magically capable of handling the responsibilities of social media. Conversely, some children might have the maturity to navigate those platforms before they are 13.
 
The news published on the date April 17, 2024 09:42 AM IST with headline  Indian economy projected to grow 6.5% in 2024: UNCTAD is: 
 Indian economy projected to grow 6.5% in 2024: UNCTAD India's economy is projected to grow by 6.5 per cent in 2024, according to a report by the UN which noted that multinationals extending their manufacturing processes into the country to diversify their supply chains will have a positive impact on Indian exports.UN Trade and Development (UNCTAD) in its report released on Tuesday said that India grew by 6.7 per cent in 2023 and is expected to expand by 6.5 per cent in 2024, continuing to be the fastest-growing major economy in the world.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"The expansion in 2023 was driven by strong public investment outlays as well as the vitality of the services sector which benefited from robust local demand for consumer services and firm external demand for the country's business services exports," the report said, adding that these factors are expected to continue to support growth in India in 2024.The report also noted the increasing focus by multinationals on India as a manufacturing base as they diversify their supply chains, a reference to China."In the outlook, an increasing trend of multinationals extending their manufacturing processes into India to diversify their supply chains will also have a positive impact on Indian exports, while moderating commodity prices will be beneficial to the country's import bill," it said.
 
The news published on the date April 17, 2024 09:33 AM IST with headline  Musk's visit: Tesla executives meet Rajasthan government for India foray is: 
 Tesla team from the US is said to be scouting for potential sites in India. Senior Tesla executives recently held a meeting with the Rajasthan government, as the western state joins a growing list of states looking to woo the Elon Musk-owned EV major, which is scouting for a location for its India foray, a report has said.Musk will be on a two-day visit to India on April 21 and 22 and is to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He is also expected to announce some major decisions regarding Tesla and his Starlink internet service.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe last week’s meeting between Tesla executives with the Rajasthan government was termed as “quite positive”, the Business Standard has reported. Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, too, are keen to get Tesla on board.Rajasthan said it had marked some land parcels for Tesla in the Bhiwadi industrial town. The EV major would survey the parcels and submit its report to the state’s investment promotion department, the report said.Moneycontrol couldn’t verify the report independently.
 
The news published on the date April 17, 2024 02:47 PM IST with headline  India needs to maximise demographic dividends and focus on job creation: Raghuram Rajan is: 
 India not reaping benefits of democratic dividend: Raghuram Rajan Former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan remarked on Tuesday that India is failing to capitalize on its demographic dividends, stressing the importance of enhancing human capital and skill sets. He spoke during a conference held at George Washington University titled "Charting India's Path to an Advanced Economy by 2047."He highlighted that India's current growth rate of around 6 percent, despite being amidst a demographic dividend, falls short of the levels achieved by China and Korea during their demographic dividend periods.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"That's why I said 6 per cent growth. If you think that's about what we are right now, take away the fluff in the GDP numbers. That 6 per cent is in the midst of a demographic dividend. It is much below where China and Korea were when they reaped their demographic dividend. And that's why I'm saying we are being overly complicit when we say this is great. This is not because we are losing the demographic dividend because we are not giving those guys jobs," said Rajan.Rajan emphasized the urgent need for job creation and suggested focusing on enhancing people's capabilities and transforming available job opportunities. He questioned the allocation of substantial funds towards chip manufacturing subsidies while neglecting job-intensive sectors like leather, contributing to India's growing unemployment issue."We are going down in those areas. No wonder we have more of a job problem. The job problem was not created in the last 10 years. It's been growing over the last few decades. But if you neglect the areas which are more intensive, I'm not saying we need to now offer subsidised subsidies to leather examples, but figure out what's going wrong there and try and rectify that," he said.
 
The news published on the date April 17, 2024 07:11 AM IST with headline  India is 'one of the strong performers': IMF is: 
 India is 'one of the strong performers': IMF India is "one of the strong performers", the International Monetary Fund, which in a report projected a 6.5 percent growth rate for the country for the year 2024, said.With this, India continues to be the fastest growing economies of the world and ahead of China's growth projection of 4.6 per cent during the same period, it said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Indeed, India is one of the strong performers. We had a fairly sharp revision in the Fiscal Year 2023 to 2024, the one that is ending, and that has just ended. Then we have 0.3 percentage point upgrade for Fiscal Year 2024 to 2025. So India is doing quite well," Pierre-Olivier Gourinchas, chief economist of the IMF, told reporters at a news conference here.Growth in India is projected to remain strong at 6.8 per cent in 2024 and 6.5 per cent in 2025, with the robustness reflecting continuing strength in domestic demand and a rising working-age population, according to the latest edition of the World Economic Outlook released by the IMF ahead of the annual spring meetings of the IMF and the World Bank.At the same time, growth in emerging and developing Asia is expected to fall from an estimated 5.6 per cent in 2023 to 5.2 per cent in 2024 and 4.9 per cent in 2025, a slight upward revision compared with the January 2024 WEO Update.
 
The news published on the date April 16, 2024 10:21 PM IST with headline  IMF sees slow, steady 2024 global growth; China, inflation pose risks is: 
 The IMF forecast global real GDP growth of 3.2% for 2024 and 2025 - the same rate as in 2023 The global economy is set for another year of slow but steady growth, the International Monetary Fund said on Tuesday, with U.S. strength pushing world output through headwinds from lingering high inflation, weak demand in China and Europe, and spillovers from two regional wars.The IMF forecast global real GDP growth of 3.2% for 2024 and 2025 - the same rate as in 2023. The 2024 forecast was revised upward by 0.1 percentage point from the previous World Economic Outlook's estimate in January, largely due to a significant upward revision in the U.S. outlook.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"We find that the global economy remains quite resilient," Pierre-Olivier Gourinchas, the IMF's chief economist, told reporters, adding that many countries have defied gloomy predictions of recession as central banks hiked interest rates to fight inflation.Many countries also are showing less "scarring" from the COVID-19 pandemic and cost-of-living crises, returning to pre-pandemic levels of output more quickly than previously predicted, the IMF said in its report.Inflation is falling, but progress in bringing it back to central bank targets has slowed in recent months, Gourinchas said, noting that recent U.S. data shows robust demand.
 
The news published on the date April 17, 2024 08:14 AM IST with headline  Taming the Wild West of illegal online gambling in India is: 
 The online gaming sector is a vital pillar in India’s ambition of becoming a trillion-dollar digital economy by 2035. Cricket has never been a mere sport in India. For its devoted fans, it is akin to a religion and a glue that binds the nation together. This was evident recently as a record-breaking 16.8 crore unique viewers tuned in on the inaugural day of the 17th Indian Premier League (IPL). Unfortunately, what began as a platform for sportsmanship and entertainment is now being misused by illegal betting platforms operating under the garb of online gaming, to entrap unsuspecting cricket fans.The Menace of Illegal Betting PlatformsStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIllegal betting platforms have witnessed a prolific rise in recent times and are employing aggressive marketing strategies during major sporting events like the IPL. These predatory platforms exploit unaware and unsuspecting fans looking for ways to engage more deeply with their favourite sports. They resort to sly advertisements - both digital and on-ground - to lure consumers onto their platforms, promising illegitimate benefits such as “no GST” and “no TDS”. Unable to distinguish between legal gaming platforms, which requires users to have intricate knowledge of the game and unique skills, and illegal betting platforms, which pander to basic gambling instincts, innocent users fall prey to the tactics these platforms employ.Apart from luring vulnerable users, these platforms flout existing regulations posing a major threat to the Indian digital ecosystem. They are clearly evading direct and indirect tax laws and multiple other applicable laws of the land.Vulnerable users, especially the youth, have fallen into the web of illegal betting apps and are getting trapped in debts. To recover or pay off large sums of debts, they often turn to informal borrowing channels and risk facing harassment from loan sharks. Some may even take unfortunate drastic steps to escape the financial and emotional distress caused by illegal betting.
 
The news published on the date April 16, 2024 04:43 PM IST with headline  Govt asks airlines to carry out risk assessment before flying on international routes is: 
 Carriers have been forced to take longer routes, which has increased the costs and the duration of the flights The civil aviation ministry has advised domestic airlines to assess the risks before flying on international routes amid growing tensions in the Middle East.Vumlunmang Vualnam, the civil aviation secretary, on April 16 said that the government has asked the airlines to carry out their own risk assessment before flying on these routes.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) is in constant touch with the airlines and the ministry of external affairs, the secretary said.Iran fired hundreds of missiles and drones towards Israel on Sunday in an unprecedented revenge attack. After the attack, several Indian carriers, including Air India, Vistara and IndiGo changed their flight court to avoid the Iranian airspace. Meanwhile, Air India has also temporarily halted its flights to Tel Aviv.Some of these steps have forced the carriers to take longer routes, which has increased the duration of the flights.
 
The news published on the date April 16, 2024 03:16 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | A ray of hope for the farm sector is: 
 A good monsoon season can alleviate some of the pressures that industry is facing. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe prediction of an above normal monsoon in 2024 comes as welcome relief for India's agriculture and allied sectors. Large parts of the South and other regions of the country are facing drought-like conditions. Adverse weather conditions have impacted several crops in the recent Rabi season. Many are worried about the upcoming Kharif, the biggest crop season that is largely rain-fed. Water levels at major reservoirs dropped to 33 percent of storage capacity and sales of agriculture inputs such as tractors and agrochemicals have slowed.A good monsoon season can alleviate some of the pressures that industry is facing and lift rural sentiment, even though much also depends on the timely onset and spatial distribution of the rains.Note that the transition of hot weather phenomenon El Nino to La Nina conditions that are associated with good rainfall is not always smooth. Late onset of La Nina can result in lower rainfall in the initial phase of the monsoon season when crop sowing takes place. Read our story to find out how normal monsoons will go a long way in reviving the agriculture inputs industry. While investors may be looking skywards in coming months, seeking good news on the monsoon front, eyes are also on the skies in the Middle East where a different sort of heat is threatening to spread.
 
The news published on the date April 16, 2024 02:26 PM IST with headline  Elon Musk’s Tesla bait-and-switch is getting old is: 
 Tesla’s layoffs add to the narrative of being a car company dealing with a slowdown. In case you didn’t know that Tesla Inc is on the cusp of a new wave of growth, it is now slashing its workforce by more than one-in-ten. It’s all there in the memo.Chief Executive Elon Musk informed the ranks this weekend that more than 14,000 of them — based on year-end 2023 figures — would be leaving the electric vehicle manufacturer forthwith. The announcement is one-part regret, three parts optimism. The phrase “next phase of growth” appears up top and in the kicker, with a derivative of it somewhere in the middle, too. This is all quite normal corporate stuff: Companies doing big layoffs must emphasize the leaner, fitter organism that will emerge. But this is Tesla at an interesting moment in its development, so the context matters.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe past year has witnessed a sequence of events concerning Tesla that mark it out as a car company. It has built too many vehicles relative to demand. It has slashed prices to shift them, with decidedly mixed results. Margins have been squeezed as a result. It has launched a flashy new model to reinject some vigour, with less-than-certain success. And it has done its best to reposition itself in the minds of investors as an artificial intelligence company.OK, that last bit isn’t very car company-like. It is Tesla-like. After thedebacle of quarterly sales figures earlier this month that missed by a mile and then the bizarre drama of a Reuters report that Tesla had ditched plans for a low-cost model — denied, sort of — Musk announced a forthcoming robotaxi reveal. Whatever ends up getting unveiled in August, the sense of Tesla seeking to reframe the story around expansive visions of AI, rather than the current reality of shrinking volumes of vehicles, is palpable.Indeed, the same weekend Tesla informed employees of the layoffs, it slashed the monthly subscription fee on its full-self driving driver assistance package in half. As with boxes on four wheels, the future does not sell itself, it seems. While the new price of $99 per month may tempt more drivers to sign up for FSD that way, it is also likely to take away from those who buy the package upfront, which is $12,000 currently, adding a further headwind to profit margins, at least in the near term.
 
The news published on the date April 16, 2024 12:49 PM IST with headline  India rate cuts 'off the table' in 2024/25: Morgan Stanley is: 
 India rate cuts 'off the table' in 2024/25: Morgan Stanley Interest rate cuts in India are "off the table" in fiscal year 2024/25 given the change in the Federal Reserve's policy path and strong growth in the South Asian nation, analysts at Morgan Stanley said on Tuesday."We believe that improving productivity growth, rising investment rate, and inflation tracking above the target of 4%, alongside a higher terminal Fed funds rate, warrant higher real rates," economists Upasana Chachra and Bani Gambhir wrote.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWith India's key policy rate expected to be steady at 6.5% in the financial year ending March 31, real rates should average 200 basis points (bps), they added.India's rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee kept the key repo rate unchanged for a seventh straight meeting earlier this month after having raised it by a total of 250 basis points between May 2022 and February 2023.The central bank seeks to ensure inflation aligns durably and sustainably to its 4% target.
 
The news published on the date April 16, 2024 09:27 AM IST with headline  Normal monsoons will go a long way in reviving agri-inputs industry is: 
 Recent years have seen growing instances of extreme weather conditions. The rainy season is seeing long dry spells, often impacting standing crops Agriculture inputs providers have got a shot of optimism from India’s weather office. The country is likely to receive above in 2024, predicts the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The monsoon coincides with the crucial kharif crop season, India’s biggest crop season. Kharif crops are largely rain fed. Timely onset, spatial distribution and good progress of monsoon rains are vital for kharif crops and agriculture productivity.Al
 
The news published on the date April 16, 2024 08:51 AM IST with headline  Should small business loans begin to bother RBI? is: 
 Are MSME loans the next risk gate? HighlightsBanks, NBFCs have increased lending to MSMEs post risk weight hikes on unsecured loansAs of September 2023, more than half of the loans to small, micro firms was from private sector banksPursuit of higher yield and credit growth are main drivers behind surge in MSME loansDelinquencies in loans with small ticket size have increased in recent quarter
 
The news published on the date April 16, 2024 08:50 AM IST with headline  World trade — Uncertainty is the only certainty   is: 
 frequent revisions underline a volatile, often conflicting, world economic outlook HighlightsLatest WTO trade outlook forecasts a 2.6 percent growth in 2024This will be better than in 2023 when there was a contractionHowever, there is a downward revision in this year’s forecastMoreover, WTO flags downside risks to the latest forecastThe WTO recognises the tendency of protectionism as a threatIf such risks undermine the growth in world trade, it will be unfortunat
 
The news published on the date April 16, 2024 07:29 AM IST with headline  Government increases windfall tax on petroleum crude by 41% from April 16 is: 
 Govt raises windfall tax on petroleum crude The Indian government has announced an increase in windfall tax on petroleum crude from 6,800 rupees to 9,600 rupees per metric ton. This change will come into effect on April 16, as part of the government's fortnightly revision of the tax. However, diesel and aviation turbine fuel will remain unaffected and will continue to have a zero windfall tax rate.On April 4, the government raised the windfall tax on petroleum crude from 4,900 rupees to 6,800 rupees per metric ton. The tax was initially introduced in July 2022 to regulate private refiners who were exporting fuel overseas to benefit from higher refining margins instead of selling it locally.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBefore this, on March 15, 2024, the Finance Ministry produced domestically to Rs 4,900 per tonne. This was an increase from the previous special additional excise duty (SAED) of Rs 4,600 per tonne that was in effect for the previous two weeks.In July 2022, the Indian government introduced a windfall tax that targeted crude oil producers. Later, this tax was expanded to include gasoline, diesel, and aviation turbine fuel (ATF) exports. The primary objective of this policy is to discourage private refiners from selling these fuels abroad at higher global prices and instead prioritize the domestic market supply. The windfall tax rate is adjusted by the government every two weeks.This increase in windfall tax on petroleum crude is aimed at ensuring that private refiners do not prioritize exports over the domestic market
 
The news published on the date April 15, 2024 10:05 PM IST with headline  Oil sheds more than $1/barrel after Iran attack is: 
 Oil sheds more than $1/barrel after Iran attack Oil prices sank by about $1 a barrel on Monday after Iran's weekend attack on Israel proved to be less damaging than anticipated, easing concerns of a quickly intensifying conflict that could displace crude barrels.Brent futures for June delivery fell $1.15, or about 1.3%, to $89.30 a barrel by 11:23 a.m. EDT (1523 GMT) while West Texas Intermediate (WTI) futures for May delivery were down $1.11 a barrel, or about 1.3%, at $84.55.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOil benchmarks had risen on Friday in anticipation of Iran's retaliatory assault, with prices soaring to their highest since October.Iran's attack involved more than 300 missiles and drones, and was the first on Israel by another country in more than three decades, raising fears of a broader regional conflict affecting oil traffic through the Middle East.Iran saying it considers its retaliation to be over has lowered the geopolitical temperature, said Kpler analyst Viktor Katona, while John Evans at oil broker PVM said the Iranian drone and missile attack was "about as telegraphed a world event that people can remember".
 
The news published on the date April 15, 2024 09:35 PM IST with headline  US stocks mixed as Treasury yields rise. Middle East war worries ease is: 
 US stocks mixed as Treasury yields rise. Middle East war worries ease Wall Street wavered, U.S. Treasury yields rose and the Japanese yen hit a 34-year trough on Monday as solid data and a calmer Middle East after Iran's weekend attacks on Israel helped revive investor risk appetite.The three major U.S. stock indexes pared initial gains and the Nasdaq turned slightly negative after Friday's steep sell-off, while the yen fell to its lowest level since 1990, reviving intervention fears.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdU.S. retail sales data for March blew past analyst expectations, the latest evidence in the case for the resilience of the American consumer."The retail sales number was a good bit better than expected and the consumer's showing signs of being strong," said Thomas Martin, Senior Portfolio Manager at GLOBALT in Atlanta."You're seeing a back-up in yields, which is probably being driven by the continuing strength of the consumer and reverberations from the inflation report last week," Martin added.
 
The news published on the date April 15, 2024 05:19 PM IST with headline  Rupee ends at record closing low amid Mideast tensions, likely cenbank support aids is: 
 Rupee ends at record closing low amid Mideast tensions, likely cenbank support aids The Indian rupee fell to its weakest closing level on record on Monday as rising Middle East tensions weighed on Asian currencies and risk assets but potential dollar sales by the Reserve Bank of India helped curb the local unit's losses.The rupee ended at 83.4500 per U.S. dollar compared with 83.4125 at close on Friday. The domestic currency had touched its lifetime low of 83.4550 earlier this month.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Foreign inflows have been robust, which is helping… while the central bank has also been actively intervening in the markets to curb volatility in the local unit," said Sugandha Sachdeva, founder of SS WealthStreet, a New Delhi-based research firm.However, if the situation in the Middle East deteriorates, there could be "increased pressure" on the rupee, she said, adding that the outlook for the domestic unit hinges "significantly" on Israel's response to the recent attack by Iran.Asian currencies were mostly lower following Iran's retaliatory attack on Israel over the weekend. The war in Gaza, which Israel invaded after an attack by Hamas on Oct. 7, has ratcheted up tensions in the region.
 
The news published on the date April 15, 2024 05:32 PM IST with headline  Why people in finance should lift weights and do strength training is: 
 If you think about the different aspects of weight training, it makes sense why Wall Street types would want to get strong. Graham Ambrose has never felt stronger. He can barbell back squat 145kg (320 lbs) for four sets of six repetitions and bench-press more than 100kg for a single rep. His friends and colleagues notice that his clothes fit tighter and he’s fond of posting mirror selfies on Instagram.But Ambrose isn’t a Gen-Z attention seeker: The 55 year old is a managing director at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. The London-based equity franchise sales specialist also has his own podcast, where he waxes lyrical about the benefits of picking up heavy things alongside his personal trainer who calls him “G-dog.”Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA Goldman MD is not exactly man-of-the-people, but many Bloomberg Opinion readers will find Ambrose’s fitness experience more relatable than that of influencers in their 20s who don’t have as many work and family commitments. His message is one that finance workers absolutely need to hear, and it couldn’t come at a better time.People who spend their working lives trying to manage risk in return for long-term financial gain often fail to apply those lessons to their own health. That’s partly because balancing personal wellbeing and professional success can be difficult in an industry that valorizes long hours and now wants workers back in the office. But while finance hasn’t become a walk-in-the-park, there is more awareness of the need to keep physically healthy and mentally resilient.And strength-training should appeal to bankers as the payoff in terms of wellbeing — and ultimately longevity — can be profound.
 
The news published on the date April 15, 2024 02:59 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | In Biden we (still) trust is: 
 Joe Biden may try to prevent an Israel-Iran conflict from widening because he has an election to fight. Dear Reader,So much changed last weekend. On Saturday night, Iran unleashed a barrage of drones and missiles against Israel. These were duly neutralised by Israel’s much-touted defence system while its allies did their bit to shoot down the rest. A few did land in Israel causing some damage, but not much.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe world of investing moved to the edge of its seat on Sunday, but by Monday morning, before trading began, nerves had been already calmed. Consider how things appear at noon IST on Monday. Asian stock indices are trading in a range of -0.7 percent to +0.5 percent. Brent is down by 0.5 percent while gold is up by 0.7 percent. That seems a very calm reaction, considering what happened.Does the outlook for markets and companies change as a result of this conflict, especially if it escalates? In today’s edition, my colleagues Neha Dave, Nitin Sharma and Anubhav Sahu take a close look at what the conflict could mean for oil, as escalation could affect output in Iran and disruption in shipping routes could lead to higher freight costs. The uncertainty could also result in interest rates remaining higher. What do all these factors mean for equities? Answers here.India is also a key importer of natural gas, a fuel that has increasingly become an important part of the country’s energy basket. Vivek Kelkaranalyses the near-term impact of these developments on natural gas and also its impact on India. He writes: “The Iran-Israel imbroglio will also pose hard near-term questions for India, whose city gas and industrial use, especially across politically sensitive products like ammonia for fertilisers is fast rising with the clear goal of producing all the urea that it needs domestically by 2025. Besides fertilisers, India consumes about 6.7 percent of natural gas, from both domestic and overseas sources, for its energy requirements. The government has a target of 15 percent for natural gas in its energy mix by 2030. India’s natural gas demand is set to grow at about 8 percent annually till 2026.”
 
The news published on the date April 15, 2024 03:05 PM IST with headline  India seeks global collaborations to explore new tech, use of methanol, ammonia as ship fuel is: 
 India seeks global collaborations to explore new tech, use of methanol, ammonia as ship fuel An Indian delegation in Singapore has sought to partner with global shipping industry to explore new technologies and the potential of using methanol and ammonia as ship fuels, a senior government official said on Monday.The Indian delegation is here to participate in the Singapore Maritime Week, which is being attended by over 10,000 delegates from around the world.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"We are here to seek out collaborations for all new technologies and explore the potential of using methanol and ammonia as ship fuels with the shipping industry stakeholders," Bhushan Kumar, joint secretary, Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways, said on the sidelines of the event.Methanol and ammonia are considered as cleaner alternatives to conventional maritime fuels. Green ammonia and methanol, produced from low-carbon sources, help in reducing carbon emissions."We have to continue working on green fuel. At this stage it may be commercially not very attractive, but we have to optimize and improve the solutions to make it commercially viable," Kumar told PTI.
 
The news published on the date April 15, 2024 03:05 PM IST with headline  Govt rules out permitting sugar exports this season is: 
 Govt rules out permitting sugar exports this season The government on Monday ruled out possibility of allowing sugar exports in the current 2023-24 season ending October, the industry's persistent demand notwithstanding.Currently, there are curbs on export of sugar for an indefinite period.Story continues below AdvertisementHowever, Indian Sugar Mills Association (ISMA) has requested the government to allow export of 10 lakh tonne of sugar in the 2023-24 season, anticipating healthy closing stock by the season-end."As of now, the government is not considering sugar exports although the industry has demanded," a senior food ministry official told PTI.The country's sugar production crossed 30 million tonne till March of the ongoing 2023-24 season.ISMA has revised net sugar production estimate for 2023-24 season to 32 million tonne. The government has estimated sugar output at 31.5-32 million tonne.Meanwhile, the government is considering allowing sugar mills to use excess stock of B-heavy molasses for ethanol production this year
 
The news published on the date April 15, 2024 03:44 PM IST with headline  India's steelmakers fall short of investment target due to delays linked to China is: 
 India's steelmakers fall short of investment target due to delays linked to China Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × Leading Indian steelmakers fell short of an investment target for the fiscal year to March 2024 due to a delay in importing machinery from China and securing visas for Chinese experts, according to a government document reviewed by Reuters and sources.Under a production-linked incentive programme, launched in 2020, 27 steelmakers including JSW Steel Ltd, Tata Steel Ltd, and ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel Ltd signed 57 agreements with the government, promising to invest 210 billion rupees ($2.52 billion) in the 2023/24 fiscal year.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBut steel companies managed to invest only 150 billion rupees, according to two sources with knowledge of the matter, slowing down capacity expansion in the world's second-biggest crude steel producer even as domestic demand remained strong.Steel companies have been facing difficulties in importing machinery from China and ensuring visa clearances for Chinese experts for more than six months, according to the government and the sources.Some of the steel mills that managed to get equipment on time failed to get experts from China to work on new projects, one of the sources said. The sources did not wish to be named as they were not authorised to talk to the media.
 
The news published on the date April 15, 2024 03:02 PM IST with headline  India consumer firms gear up to cash in on a sizzling summer is: 
 India consumer firms gear up to cash in on a sizzling summer Indian consumer goods companies such as makers of cooling systems, beer and ice cream are attempting to capitalise on a hotter-than-usual summer season by cranking up output, launching new products and ramping up spending on marketing.The world's most populous nation expects 10 to 20 heatwave days, which it describes as temperatures hitting at least 40 degree Celsius in the plains, from April through June this year, versus the normal four to eight days. Already temperatures have crossed 40 degrees in a few cities in the western Maharashtra and Gujarat states.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe searing heat is why appliances maker Blue Star has launched dozens of new home airconditioner products as it targets a 25% jump in revenue from that business this summer versus just a 5% increase last year, according to its Managing Director B. Thiagarajan.And U.S.-based ice cream brand Baskin Robbins has launched 20 new products in India ahead of the summer season."An unusually hot year will significantly impact the sector and uplift consumer discretionary companies' demand for selling airconditioners, fans, fridges, etc," said Akshay Mokashe, senior research analyst at Axis Securities, adding that they will report robust growth numbers for the first quarter of the current fiscal year.
 
The news published on the date April 15, 2024 01:35 PM IST with headline  Gold is back — and it has a message for us is: 
 There are deeper, longer-term messages in this rise that investors should pay very close attention to. Rana ForooharIt’s easy to mock gold bugs, but their moment may finally have come. The precious metal has been breaking out recently amid higher than expected inflation in the US, and general anxiety over everything from geopolitics to the November presidential elections to where monetary policy and markets go from here.All these things are predictable reasons for gold to surge. But there are deeper, longer-term messages in this rise that investors should pay very close attention to.Let’
 
The news published on the date April 15, 2024 12:43 PM IST with headline  India's wholesale inflation rises to three-month high of 0.53% in March is: 
 The WPI data comes days after the statistics ministry said that India's headline retail inflation stood steady at 4.85 percent in March. India's wholesale inflation rate quickened to three-month high of 0.53 percent in February, mainly driven by food and primary articles, data released by the commerce ministry on April 15 showed.Wholesale Price Index (WPI) inflation stood at 0.2 percent in February and 1.34 percent in March 2023. Food prices rose 4.65 per cent as compared with an increase of 4.09 percent in February.Story continues below AdvertisementThe WPI data comes days after the statistics ministry said that India's headline retail inflation eased to a 10-month low of 4.85 percent in March. The headline retail inflation rate has stayed above the Reserve Bank of India's medium-term target of 4 percent for 54 months in a row.The annual rate of inflation for Primary Articles of WPI increased slightly to 4.51 percent in March 2024 from 4.49 percent in February 2024.The annual rate of inflation for Fuel & Power of WPI increased to (-) 0.77 percent in March 2024 as compared to (-) 1.59 percent in February 2024.The annual rate of inflation of Manufactured Products group of WPI increased to (-) 0.85 percent in March 2024 as compared to (-) 1.27 percent in February 2024.For the fiscal year ended March 31 the wholesale inflation index fell 0.7 percent versus a 9.41 percent rise a year ago
 
The news published on the date April 15, 2024 10:58 AM IST with headline  IIP numbers show long-term decline in capital goods production is: 
 Capital goods production will pick up as the limits of capacity utilisation are reached, but the government data indicate that hasn’t happened yet One of the debates about the Indian economy currently is whether capital goods production has revived in the private sector. The BSE Capital Goods index certainly seems to think so—it’s up 77 percent over the past one year. RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said in his latest monetary policy statement: "The resilience in cement production, together with strong growth in steel consumption and production and import of capital goods, augur well for the investment cycle to gain furthe
 
The news published on the date April 16, 2024 04:26 PM IST with headline  Israel, Iran trade punches – What it means for Indian markets is: 
 BSE advance-decline ratio for April 1-12 at record HighlightsThe Israel-Iran tension can have repercussions on the world economy and global stock marketsCrude oil prices may surge if the struggle between the two countries escalateA higher inflationary scenario can frustrate the efforts of global central banks to cut interest ratesIndia’s domestic macro is in a much better shape, though equities will feel the heat of the Iran-Israel conflictInvestors can use the opportunity to cherry-pick stock
 
The news published on the date April 14, 2024 05:49 PM IST with headline  Oil seen opening up after Iran's attack on Israel, but further gains may depend on response is: 
 Oil seen opening up after Iran's attack on Israel, but further gains may depend on response Oil prices are expected to rise on Monday after Iran's attack on Israel over the weekend, analysts said on Sunday, but further gains may depend on how Israel and the West choose to retaliate.Iran launched explosive drones and missiles at Israel late on Saturday in retaliation for a suspected Israeli attack on its consulate in Syria on April 1, a first direct attack on Israeli territory that has stoked fears a wider regional conflict.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdConcern of a response from Iran to the strike on its embassy compound in Damascus supported oil last week and helped send global benchmark Brent crude on Friday to $92.18 a barrel, the highest since October.It settled that day up 71 cents at $90.45, while U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude futures rose 64 cents to $85.66. Trading is closed on Sunday."It is only reasonable to expect stronger prices when trading resumes," said Tamas Varga of oil broker PVM. "Having said that, there has been no impact on production so far and Iran has said that 'the matter can be deemed concluded'.
 
The news published on the date April 13, 2024 01:58 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Weekender | Horses for courses is: 
 The medium-term may not be as rosy as the markets are picturing it. Dear Reader,The scandal of the week was definitely the US CPI print coming in at a high 3.5 percent year-on-year for March 2024, higher than 3.2 percent for February. US bond yields moved up immediately, while market expectations of the Fed’s rate cut were pushed back from June this year to September. This FT story, free to read for Moneycontrol Pro subscribers, approvingly cites JP Morgan chief Jamie Dimon’s letter to shareholders this week, which talked of ‘stickier inflation and higher rates than markets expect.’Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBut if inflation is a bugbear for the US, the opposite is true for China, where retail inflation came in at a meagre 0.1 percent year-on-year for March, once again raising fears of deflation and cries for more stimulus. Consumer price inflation in the Eurozone came down to 2.4 percent in March, prompting European Central Bank chief Christine Lagarde to hint at a possible rate cut in June. And in Japan, they are heaving a sigh of relief that inflation is on the upswing and this FT story says it may finally be becoming a more normal economy after years of negative interest rates. As far as policy rates go, we increasingly seem to have horses for courses.One reason for the differences in inflation rates and monetary stance is growth. While the US economy grew at 3.4 percent year-on-year in Q4, 2023, for the Eurozone GDP growth was 0.1 percent.India, of course, is an outlier on growth, with the Asian Development Bank pegging GDP growth at 7 percent for 2024-25 and 7.2 percent for 2025-26. Retail inflation fell in March 2024 to 4.85 percent, as expected, and core inflation remained low, but month-on-month food inflation was up a bit. As RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said in his monetary policy statement, ‘’The strong growth momentum, together with our GDP projections for 2024-25, give us the policy space to unwaveringly focus on price stability.’’ He also said ‘’The success in the disinflation process so far should not distract us from the vulnerability of the inflation trajectory to the frequent incidence of supply side shocks.’’ We wrote here about when India is likely to see the much-awaited cut in the policy rate.
 
The news published on the date April 13, 2024 10:04 AM IST with headline  Bet on Chinese economic decline at your own peril is: 
 China is the world’s most competitive producer of electric cars, lithium-ion batteries and solar panels. Is the Chinese growth story over? Former banker Uday Kotak has issued a warning of Chinese implosion on X (formerly Twitter), rating agency Fitch has put a negative outlook on Chinese prospects, and China’s growth rate for 2024 is forecast to come in at 4.8 percent by the Asian Development Bank, a shade lower than the Chinese government’s own target of 5 percent. Over the next 10 years, 300 million are going to move out of China’s working age population, as they age. And the overall population is shrinking,Is the dragon past its prime, and should the elephant prepare to race past this huffing and puffing mass of wiggly hubris? Not so fast. There is every reason to believe that China is transitioning to a more mature stage of economic growth, rather than trudging down a slope of decline. It would be wrong for Indian companies or the government to fashion plans based any assumption of Chinese economic decline.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdUS’s Factory Capacity Warning to China US treasury secretary Janet Yellen has just completed her second official visit to China. Her mission was to persuade China to stop destroying jobs in the US by building up excess capacity and flooding the world market with everything from disposable nappies to snazzy electric cars.Janet Yellen is a diminutive economist, not Tom Cruise in drag; and so, this particular Mission Impossible lived up to its name, instead of succeeding against all odds. Chinese officials politely refused to assure her that Chinese companies would cut back production so that less competitive American companies could continue to inflict avoidable costs on consumers around the world.
 
The news published on the date April 12, 2024 05:46 PM IST with headline  India's forex kitty  jumps $2.98 billion to new high of $648.562 billion is: 
 In September 2021, the country's forex kitty reached an all-time high of USD 642.453 billion, a level that was breached in March this year. India’s forex reserves jumped by USD 2.98 billion to a fresh peak of USD 648.562 billion for the week ended April 5, the RBI said on Friday. In the previous reporting week, the forex kitty had increased by USD 2.951 billion to USD 645.583 billion, which was an all-time high. In the previous reporting week, the forex kitty had increased by USD 2.951 billion to USD 645.583 billion, which was an all-time high.In September 2021, the country’s forex kitty reached an all-time high of USD 642.453 billion, a level that was breached in March this year. The reserves took a hit as the central bank deployed the kitty to defend the rupee amid pressures caused majorly by global events, but there has been a steady accretion over the past few months. The reserves took a hit as the central bank deployed the kitty to defend the rupee amid pressures caused majorly by global events, but there has been a steady accretion over the past few months.Story continues below AdvertisementFor the week ended April 5, the foreign currency assets, a major component of the reserves, increased by USD 549 million to USD 571.166 billion, the data released on Friday showed.Expressed in dollar terms, the foreign currency assets include the effect of appreciation or depreciation of non-US units like the euro, pound and yen held in the foreign exchange reserves. Gold reserves increased by USD 2.398 billion to USD 54.558 billion during the week, the RBI said. The Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) were up by USD 24 million to USD 18.17 billion, the apex bank said. The Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) were up by USD 24 million to USD 18.17 billion, the apex bank said. India’s reserve position with the IMF was also up by USD 9 million to USD 4.669 billion in the reporting week, the apex bank data showed
 
The news published on the date April 13, 2024 01:58 PM IST with headline  British consumers are being asked to defy gravity again is: 
 Brits have endured a long stretch of rising costs and many of those who faced the end of competitive mortgage deals a year or so ago have now refinanced at higher rates. Simon Wolfson, chief executive officer of Next Plc, said recently that he had not been this optimistic about the retailer’s outlook for seven years. Then this week, Ken Murphy, CEO of Tesco Plc, said he was seeing a “gentle improvement” in consumer sentiment.The landscape is certainly better than it was a year ago, when, despite some positive signs, UK shoppers were still in the grip of inflation. But we should still be wary of threats to any green shoots.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe welcome news is that the cost-of-living crisis is dissipating. Food prices in the country rose by 4.5 percent in March, the lowest level since February 2022, according to data provider Kantar. A year ago, they were increasing by around 17 percent. Murphy said Tesco’s assumption was for grocery inflation to stabilize at a low single-digit percentage for the remainder of the year.Although there are still some flashpoints — cocoa, coffee, olive oil and potatoes — consumers are managing those high prices by controlling their spend elsewhere, often trading down to private labels or shopping in discount stores. And energy costs, although high by historic levels, are becoming less of a burden.Meanwhile, UK wages are rising ahead inflation, which should stretch household budgets further. The National Living Wage rose 10 percent from the start of this month. While this puts pressure on retailers’ cost base, it should deliver more money into the pockets of their customers. What’s more, we are probably at the end of the rake hiking cycle, potentially bringing some comfort to borrowers.
 
The news published on the date April 13, 2024 02:23 AM IST with headline  The Reading List: April 12, 2024 is: 
 A selection of articles curated by our research and opinion teams. In a world strapped for time, we thought you may find it useful to have a selection of articles we read this past week. As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. Occasionally, we may stray from these subjects.These links may be from external websites we frequent o
 
The news published on the date April 13, 2024 02:15 AM IST with headline  Why microeconomics and implementation matters: Policy lessons from PM Modi’s approach on development is: 
 The policy approach of the UPA was distinctly different from that of the NDA under Prime Minister (PM) Modi. In a standard course in Economics, growth and development are typically taught from a macroeconomics perspective. At the same time, microeconomics focuses on individuals' choices, whether as consumers or producers. As a result of this dichotomy, when expert advice on growth and development is needed for policymaking, one typically turns to the macroeconomists. However, there is no objective basis for why such a dichotomy exists; after all, the primary focus should be on the growth and development of the individual or the choices individuals make to grow and develop. Macroeconomists understand this dilemma and make desperate attempts to provide a micro foundation by constructing a hypothetical representative agent who might or might not bear any resemblance to a real person or an individual. In my opinion, this dichotomy between the macro outlook and the micro perspective produces a subtle difference in the philosophical approach towards growth and development. In this regard, the policy approach of the UPA was distinctly different from that of the NDA under Prime Minister (PM) Modi. The UPA had a macro approach to growth and development, with greater emphasis on the aggregate numbers. In comparison, the NDA under PM Modi focused much more on micro-revolutions with greater emphasis on implementation so that basic infrastructure such as digital technology, toilets, roads, houses, bank accounts, LPG, water, etc., reached all, irrespective of socio-economic status, religious beliefs or diverse geographies. The emphasis of the NDA under PM Modi was not limited to how much the government is spending in the aggregate sense but on whether it is reaching the intended individual beneficiaries.This philosophical difference in approach was reflected in the debate in the upper house of the Parliament when the former Finance Minister of the UPA, who perhaps represents the intelligentsia of the UPA, mocked Prime Minister Modi's digital payment infrastructure plan to take it to the lowest sections of the society. He believed such an ambitious plan would be a spectacular failure, an unnecessary waste of scarce resources. Given that his thinking was primarily macro with a limited capacity to think in micro details, he could not envision (a) that such an ambitious plan could be implemented on the ground and (b) that it would readily be accepted and adopted by the most ordinary citizens. While focusing on aggregate expenditures, he was blinded to the transformative nature of the micro-revolutions unleashed at the individual's level. In less than five years, India's digital public infrastructure, including digital payments and direct benefit transfers, is considered a "logistical marvel" worldwide. The macro approach of the UPA to growth and development with a focus on aggregate numbers starkly contrasts with the micro and individualistic approach to the growth and development of the NDA under PM Modi.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn the next part of the essay, I provide additional examples highlighting the difference between macro and micro perspectives on growth and development.In a standard microeconomic framework, wages are directly proportional to the marginal productivity of labour, which measures the incremental increase in output from a one-unit increase in labour. The more productive the labour, the higher the wages. However, if labour is subjected to diminishing returns, with further increases in labour, output grows, but at a lesser rate; in other words, with additional units of labour, the marginal productivity of the labour would fall, and therefore, the wages would be lower if more and more people can do the same job. Hence, wages reflect the value in exchange (and not the value in use) and would largely depend on how scarce the labour is. It is crucial to bear in mind that in such a framework, there is no virtue signalling in higher wages. If households want to raise their wage and improve their standard of living, they would have to invest resources in activities that increase their productivity. One possible way for the household to achieve this would be investments in health and education. Therefore, from a micro perspective, household expenditure on health and education is an investment, not consumption. However, from a macro perspective, health and education are not considered economic investment expenditures but consumption expenditures.Second, if we look at some of the flagship programmes of the government, such as the PM Jan Arogya Program, which is perhaps the world's most extensive health insurance programme, the macro perspective of the programme would limit itself to the aggregate health expenditure, while the micro perspective focuses on the reduction in the health-related precautionary motive to save and therefore, leading all households (whether they avail the insurance or not) to increase their consumption expenditure, which in turn increases aggregate consumption and hence, higher output.
 
The news published on the date April 12, 2024 03:25 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Deluded expectations is: 
 What happens to India’s enthusiastic stock market investors? Dear Reader,A popular trading philosophy is to buy on rumours and sell on confirmation. If we scour through past market cycles, short or long, we can find innumerable moments where indices run up ahead of quarterly earnings and then just dissipate once the report cards pour in. That does not mean companies always under-deliver on profitability, but it simply shows that markets love hope. Being wrong is better than being left out.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe present day scenario is not different. India’s twin stock indices have scaled new peaks, running on the dope of hope that companies will report another quarter of robust profitability. Nifty has already crossed the year-end target of two brokerages. Of course, there will be a bunch of laggards that are on the ebb of the cycle and there will be shining stars, as is the case in every quarter. This season is about the final quarter that will close the curtains on the annual performance in FY24.Ananya Roy brings us a sensible explanation on what to expect this earnings season. “Overall, India Inc is expected to report sales growth in the mid-single digits, while bottom-line growth is expected to be slightly higher,” she points out in her piece.That does not sound upbeat enough to warrant the kind of outperformance showed by the equity indices over the past two months. Analysts aren’t as upbeat as investors on earnings. As my colleague R Sreeram pointed out on Tuesday, earnings moderation is expected across companies and not just the bigwigs.
 
The news published on the date April 14, 2024 06:57 PM IST with headline  What’s behind the rupee’s never-ending depreciation? is: 
 As the Fed aggressively jacked up rates in 2022 to fight inflation, there was a massive influx of foreign capital into US treasuries HighlightsThe rupee is facing a steady bout of depreciation against the dollarIf it was the US Fed hiking rates initially that lent strength to the dollar, the US economy’s strength continues to support itIndia is not alone in this situation, with other EM currencies giving it companyBut the REER shows that the INR is holding up well against other currenciesWhile the pressures on the rupee-dollar exchange rate will remain, the fluctuations will be tightly range-bound thanks t
 
The news published on the date April 12, 2024 09:47 AM IST with headline  Is an HUF structure a no-brainer for managing taxes and assets? Warts you should be aware of is: 
 How does the HUF generate income or own income-yielding assets? It is an open secret that Hindu Undivided Family as an entity for Hindus, Sikhs, etc. (referred to as Hindus generally here) helps save tax and also helps in managing finances even better. While seem to give an impression that this is something many people may have missed and should know about, Chartered Accountants/finance advisors know this since ages, so much so that even a lay person wit
 
The news published on the date April 12, 2024 08:40 AM IST with headline  Chart of the Day: How credit growth floated up through underpricing of risks in FY24 is: 
 The RBI has been pointing to the lack of complete transmission of policy rate hikes onto lending rates Between April 2022 and February 2023, the Reserve Bank of India hiked the policy repo rate by 2.5 percentage points, and since then has kept the rate unchanged at 6.50 percent. When policy rates are hiked, banks invariably pass on the expense over to borrowers through hikes in loan rates. This process of transmission has been made more efficient through the external benchmark-based lending rate (EBLR) in which banks price their loans by charging a spread ove
 
The news published on the date April 12, 2024 08:51 AM IST with headline  India’s coal power project pipeline is biggest in the world outside China is: 
 Coal power plant India may be scaling up its green power generation capacities. But the rapidly rising electricity demand is leading to more coal power plants. So much so, India now has the largest number of coal power plants under construction and in the pipeline after China, says a Global Energy Monitor report. The pre-construction capacities are estimated to have risen to 46,033 megawatts (MW). After India, Bangladesh and Indonesia have the largest number of coal power projects in th
 
The news published on the date April 11, 2024 10:15 AM IST with headline  ADB raises India's GDP growth forecast for FY25 to 7% on robust investment, consumer demand is: 
 Indian economy The Asian Development Bank (ADB) on Thursday raised India’s GDP growth forecast for the current fiscal to 7 percent from 6.7 percent earlier, saying the robust growth will be driven by public and private sector investment demand and gradual improvement in consumer demand.The 2024-25 growth estimate is, however, lower than 7.6 percent projected for the 2022-23 fiscal. Strong investment drove GDP growth in the 2022-23 fiscal as consumption was muted, the ADB said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe ADB had in December last year projected the Indian economy to expand 6.7 percent in the 2024-25 fiscal."The economy grew robustly in fiscal 2023 with strong momentum in manufacturing and services. It will continue to grow rapidly over the forecast horizon. Growth will be driven primarily by robust investment demand and improving consumption demand. Inflation will continue its downward trend in tandem with global trends,” the April edition of the Asian Development Outlook released on Friday. Growth will be robust despite moderating in FY2024 and FY2025, it said.For the 2025-26 fiscal, the ADB has projected India’s growth at 7.2 percent. The ADB said exports are likely to be relatively muted this fiscal as growth in major advanced economies slows down but will improve in FY2025.
 
The news published on the date April 11, 2024 07:21 AM IST with headline  Mohamed A. El-Erian: Fed faces a big risk, but it’s not the one many think is: 
 More analysts now expect Fed Chair Jerome Powell to abandon his narrative of the last two months of nothing having changed in the favourable inflation picture I have been arguing for almost a year now, here and elsewhere, that US consumer price inflation would become sticky after a period of favourable disinflation going into the end of 2023. Wednesday’s hotter-than-expected data release, the third in a row, is evidence that this scenario is indeed unfolding.The annualized three-month measure of core inflation is now 4.5%, notably higher than the corresponding six- and 12-month measures. What has yet to be widely recognized, however, are the policy implications of this if the objective is to retain the economic exceptionalism that has served the US well so far.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt its simplified level, the continuation of favourable US disinflation required that price increases in the services sector moderate at a significantly faster rate before the outright price declines that we’ve seen in goods reversed course. This is not happening. Thus, the turn higher in the inflation metrics; and the dramatic market repricing of expected interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve from seven at the start of 2024 to less than two today.This repricing by traders is consistent with the view of a heavily data-dependent Fed. Policymakers, haunted by their gross mischaracterization of inflation in 2021 as transitory and memories of the monetary policy mistakes of the 1970s, will tend to be heavily influenced by backward-looking data in deciding how to get to the central bank’s 2% inflation target. This is despite a widespread recognition that their policy tools act with a lag.More analysts now expect Fed Chair Jerome Powell to abandon his narrative of the last two months of nothing having changed in the favourable inflation picture. Instead of hoping it was about seasonal factors, they reckon he will shift to a more hawkish tone, just as he finally did in November 2021 when, in front of Congress, he retired the word transitory from the Fed’s vocabulary ahead of inflation peaking at over 9%.
 
The news published on the date April 11, 2024 07:25 AM IST with headline  The Fed choked clean energy. It’s about to start reviving that is: 
 That clean energy juggernaut came shuddering to a halt last year as rising rates dried up funds Think of the people who have done most to impede clean power over the past few years, and a few obvious figures suggest themselves: Vladimir Putin. Mohammed Bin Salman. Donald Trump. Jerome Powell?That last one may seem out of place. The Federal Reserve governor hasn’t always delighted climate activists, but he’s done his best to stay out of the bitter debates between advocates of fossil fuels and green technology. And yet the actions he’s taken to manage interest rates over the past few years have quietly been one of the most decisive factors slowing the pace of the energy transition.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAs the most drastic pace of US monetary tightening since the early 1980s gives way to a more accommodative policy, those macroeconomic headwinds that have hindered the rollout of renewables in recent years could be on the brink of turning into tailwinds. That might accelerate the uptake of clean energy in ways we’re yet to appreciate.To understand why, it’s worth considering that debt has the same outsized importance to clean energy as fuel has to fossil power. About half of the cost of gas-powered electricity is gas itself. Renewables are fuel-free, but that means almost all of their expenditure is incurred upfront — financed with debt. (1)That makes them more dependent on the cost of finance than carbon-intensive alternatives. When Jay Powell lifts interest rates, he makes renewables less competitive. When he cuts, the dynamic goes into reverse.
 
The news published on the date April 11, 2024 06:55 AM IST with headline  Why write a shareholder letter? Ask Dimon or Buffett is: 
 In his letter, you can find Dimon’s thoughts on everything from diversity, equity and inclusion to the mini banking crisis of 2023 Jamie Dimon has a lot to say.The JPMorgan Chase & Co. CEO’s annual letter to shareholders, which was released on Monday, clocked in at just under 28,000 words. That count does not include the 58 footnotes or the reprint of a 1992 Wall Street Journal op-ed from one-time presidential nominee George McGovern that Dimon thinks you should read in full for its nuanced perspective on regulation. (As a point of reference, this column is about 700 words and most of you won’t make it to the end.)Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn his letter, you can find Dimon’s thoughts on everything from diversity, equity and inclusion to the mini banking crisis of 2023. The last third is essentially a political manifesto, with analysis and policy suggestions for most of the world’s ills, along with polemics on the power of American freedom.But the common theme and overarching message of the missive is that Jamie Dimon is an important man with important ideas.In an era when CEOs aren’t just leaders of companies but also “thought leaders” who weigh in not just on corporate policy but public policy, the annual shareholder letter has taken on a new significance in corporate America. For a certain subset of executive bigwigs, it’s a chance to hone their public personas and show shareholders and the general public not just what they think but how they think.
 
The news published on the date April 11, 2024 06:38 AM IST with headline  Human psychology and investments: Daniel Kahneman’s theory decoded is: 
 The overwhelming fear of losses can cause investors to behave irrationally and make bad decisions The Princeton University psychologist Daniel Kahneman, who recently passed away at the age of 90, is the pioneer in behavioural economics and won a Nobel Prize for his work which established a relation between psychology and economics.The Prospect theory, the work for which Kahneman won the Nobel Prize, proposed a change to the way humans make decisions while facing risks, especially those related to investments.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhat is the Prospect theory? Amos Tversky and Daniel Kahneman conducted a series of psychological experiments and found that investors value gains and losses differently, placing more weight on perceived gains versus perceived losses.For the exact same amount, investors feel the impact of losses much more than gains.
 
The news published on the date April 10, 2024 11:54 PM IST with headline  Fed favours reducing monthly asset runoff pace by roughly half is: 
 While a narrow majority of policymakers had penciled in at least three rate cuts for 2024 when they met in March, the latest data weaken the case for reductions as soon as June and point toward fewer cuts in 2024. Federal Reserve policymakers “generally favoured” slowing the pace at which they’re shrinking the central bank’s asset portfolio by roughly half, minutes from their latest gathering showed.The record of the March 19-20 Federal Open Market Committee meeting also showed “almost all” officials judged it would be appropriate to begin lowering borrowing costs “at some point” this year. However, inflation data since then has upended expectations for three interest-rate cuts this year.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPolicymakers “noted that the disinflation process was continuing along a path that was generally expected to be somewhat uneven,” according to the meeting minutes released Wednesday.Fed officials began discussing plans for slowing down the process of unwinding their massive balance sheet, known as quantitative tightening, though no decisions were made at the meeting.Although most officials saw the process as proceeding smoothly, they “broadly assessed” it would be appropriate to take a cautious approach to further runoff given market turmoil in 2019, the last time the Fed tried to shrink its portfolio.“The vast majority of participants thus judged it would be prudent to begin slowing the pace of runoff fairly soon,” the minutes showed.The Fed has been winding down its holdings of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities — a process known as quantitative tightening, or QT — at a rate of $95 billion per month. Fed Chair Jerome Powell said at his press conference on March 20 the Fed is considering slowing the pace fairly soon to “help ensure a smooth transition, reducing the possibility that money markets experience stress.”Officials generally favored keeping the existing cap on mortgage-backed securities, but adjusting the cap on Treasuries, the minutes showed.Story continues below AdvertisementWall Street is homing in on what level of bank reserves is appropriate to guarantee liquidity and avert past blowups in financial markets. The amount of cash institutions have parked at the Fed stands at nearly $3.5 trillion.Persistent Inflation The minutes also underscored officials’ reluctance to lower rates until they have more evidence inflation is firmly on a path to 2%, the rate they see as the sweet spot in a healthy economy.March data on consumer prices released earlier Wednesday showed that January and February figures were more than a blip: A key measure of inflation exceeded economists’ expectations for the third straight month, posting a 0.4% rise from February and 3.8% from a year earlier.While a narrow majority of policymakers had penciled in at least three rate cuts for 2024 when they met in March, the latest data weaken the case for reductions as soon as June and point toward fewer cuts in 2024.Nine of 19 Fed officials indicated last month they expect no more than two cuts. Atlanta Fed President Raphael Bostic — who votes on policy decisions this year and expects just one reduction in the fourth quarter — and Minneapolis’ Neel Kashkari have floated the possibility of no rate cuts at all this year if inflation data continue to disappoint.Ahead of the minutes, investors saw a chance of fewer than two reductions in 2024 and are expecting the first move won’t come until September at the earliest, according to futures markets.Policymakers voted unanimously to leave interest rates unchanged in a range of 5.25% to 5.5% last month and said in their post-meeting policy statement that they would hold them there until officials gained “greater confidence” that inflation was moving toward 2% in a sustainable way.Powell said in remarks at Stanford University on April 3 that officials have time to let data guide policy given the strength of the economy and progress on inflation so far.US employers have added 829,000 jobs in the first three months of the year, as strong consumer demand continues to bolster economic activity.In quarterly economic projections released last month, Fed officials ramped up their estimates for 2024 growth, to 2.1% from 1.4% in December. Their outlook for core inflation also ticked higher to 2.6% by the end of the year
 
The news published on the date April 10, 2024 05:00 PM IST with headline  Large caps to be in focus with incremental capex expansion is: 
 Key impediments in the path could be tepid exports due to geopolitical uncertainty and uneven global growth The start of a new fiscal year ushers in hope for a better year ahead. Instead of being drawn in with a rose tinted-glass vision, let us opt for a realistic view of what the financial landscape offers ahead.My eyes fell upon the large cap funds that are well placed to potentially gain from the high-decibel development pitch that is being played on the political scene. Government consumption and investments so far have led the World Ban
 
The news published on the date April 10, 2024 04:18 PM IST with headline  Copper prices have risen 11% in 2024 so far. Why is the metal surging? is: 
 According to Trafigura, artificial intelligence could add a global demand of 1 million tons of copper by 2030. Copper has been on a surging spree in 2024, with the metal jumping 11 percent so far as investors see a positive outlook ahead over global demand.The metal has also been trading near 14-month high on the London Metal Exchange around $9,500 per metric ton, while it is at an all-time high on the Shanghai Metal Exchange. It is also trading at a 16-month high on the CME.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhy is copper surging?There are several factors behind the jump in prices.The Cobre Panama project was forced to shut down after Panama's top court ruled that its contract was unconstitutional. This project was one of the world's largest open-pit copper mines and its closure has created a big hole in the supply chain. Another global mining company Anglo American had recently announced that it plans to cut its spending and as part of the move, it will put one of its copper mines on ‘care and maintenance’.
 
The news published on the date April 10, 2024 01:26 PM IST with headline  Mohamed El-Erian: Inverted pyramid of investments needs shoring up is: 
 - Early in my investment management career, I was taught to design long-term investment portfolios as a pyramid. A solid foundation of secular and structural positions, with a much smaller opportunistic and tactical top. In other words, construct a durable structure that could mostly resist unsettling market volatility and navigate economic and geopolitical shakes.Today, this once-reassuring construction seems to have become gradually inverted: a shrunken secular and structural base now has to support a larger opportunistic and tactica
 
The news published on the date April 10, 2024 10:38 AM IST with headline  US: $200 billion of M&A wasn't enough in oil patch is: 
 The US Federal Trade Commission is already scrutinizing the last round of M&A oil deals. (Source: Bloomberg) Even after a record $200 billion dealmaking frenzy last year, US oil and gas producers haven’t consolidated nearly enough. On a-per-barrel basis, there are still too many companies, too many chief executives, and too many drilling rigs wooing a limited pool of available capital.The solution is simple: more M&A.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdGranted, the industry is today a lot slimmer than it once was. If you attend industry events where people still exchange business cards – rather than pair iPhones — and you keep a rolodex, just flip through it to see how much has changed since the pandemic.I did so a few weeks ago as I was setting up a meetings ahead of an industry conference in Houston. The result was a trip down memory lane: Anadarko Petroleum, among the first to go; Whiting Petroleum, merged and re-named; Endeavor Energy Resources, about to disappear; Cimarex Energy, merged; Concho Resources, long gone; Encana Corp., rebranded. The list goes on.
 
The news published on the date April 10, 2024 06:21 PM IST with headline  By year-end, 20 coal mines likely to come into operation is: 
 By year-end, 20 coal mines likely to come into operation Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × Twenty coal mines are likely to become operational by the end of this year, a move that will reduce coal imports and help meet rising power demand.Peak power demand in the country is likely to cross 400 GW by 2030.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAccording to an official source, these 20 coal blocks include seven of Coal India and three of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL). They will contribute another 100 million tonne (MT) in three to four years.State-owned accounts for over 80 per cent of domestic coal output.SCCL is jointly owned by the Telangana government and the Centre on a 51:49 equity basis.The country for the first time crossed the milestone of 1 billion tonne of coal and lignite production in 2023-24, and is not very far from its next target to eliminate coal imports by 2025-26, Coal and Mines Minister Pralhad Joshi had earlier said.The country's total coal and lignite output was 937 MT in 2022-23 fiscal year, as per official data.In FY24, about 22.20 MT coal was imported for blending, as compared to 30.80 MT in 2022-23
 
The news published on the date April 10, 2024 01:10 PM IST with headline  Start-up Street | Perpetual funds – an idea whose time has come? is: 
 - As an investor (limited partner-LP) in a fund, I recently encountered a peculiar situation. The fund was sitting on two investments beyond its extended fund life and SEBI was insisting the fund either exit the investment and return monies to LPs or do an “in-Specie” distribution of shares in the two companies. Incidentally, LPs were okay with a further extension to enable the fund to plan the exit more judiciously than do a hasty or distress sale.Thi
 
The news published on the date April 10, 2024 10:11 AM IST with headline  India’s 10-year bond yield to ease to 6.50-6.75% by H2 on FPI demand, policy rate cuts is: 
 India’s 10-year benchmark yield has moved in a narrow band in March. Highlights:US Federal Reserve and other central banks could begin policy rate cuts this yearMPC's status quo on rates in April meeting was on expected linesIndia’s 10-year benchmark yield has moved in a narrow band in MarchHeavy load of state borrowings had weighed on sentiment even as central government supply seems manageableThe 10-year bond could consolidate in 6.50-6.75 percent range in 2024-25, helped by foreign investor demand and policy rate cut
 
The news published on the date April 10, 2024 08:34 AM IST with headline  Decoding Economics | Corporate debt and boom-bust cycles is: 
 - One big reason for the extended slowdown in the Indian economy before the pandemic lay in the piling up of bad loans at banks. This was known as the twin balance sheet problem, since the over-leveraged balance sheet of the corporate sector prevented it from expansion, while the corresponding bad loans at banks slowed down lending. The cleaning up of these balance sheets took time.Prior to this cyclical slowdown in the economy, loan growth had been ver
 
The news published on the date April 10, 2024 08:21 AM IST with headline  Will solar prospects radiate on the protectionist push? is: 
 According to various reports, the current solar module capacity is somewhere near 50 GW, which may go up to 60 GW by the end of next year. (Representative image) HighlightsThe ALMM has been made effective April 1This list is to incentivise local solar module manufacturingThe list applies to government-sponsored solar projectsThe ALMM order can create temporary disruption in the marketThe bigger worry for local solar manufacturers could be the overcapacity in the global marke
 
The news published on the date April 10, 2024 06:21 PM IST with headline  India wants to be the world’s next growth driver is: 
 India wants to be the world’s next growth driver India is posting some of the most robust economic growth rates right now in the world. And with China slowing, India could become the new engine of global economic growth.But it will take strategic investments, increased labor participation and more for India to achieve its economic ambitions. Today on the show, Bloomberg’s New Delhi-based economics and politics reporter Dan Strumpf joins host Sarah Holder to discuss India’s roadmap, and what its success could mean for the rest of the world.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHere is a lightly edited transcript of the conversation:Sarah Holder: At the edge of New Delhi, in the city of Noida, the groundwork for India’s economic future is being built.Vast blocks of electronics factories have sprung up there – from a million-square-foot Dixon Technologies plant staffed by about 26,000 workers; to a Samsung facility that’s churning out 120 million phones a year.
 
The news published on the date April 09, 2024 06:17 PM IST with headline  Oil prices steady after drop as Middle East ceasefire hopes wane is: 
 Oil prices steady after drop as Middle East ceasefire hopes wane Oil prices stabilised on Tuesday as prices ticked higher amid fading hopes that negotiations between Israel and Hamas would produce a ceasefire in Gaza.Brent crude futures edged up 6 cents, or 0.07%, to $90.44 per barrel by 1156 GMT. U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures were down 2 cents or 0.02% at $86.41.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn Monday, Brent posted its first decline in five sessions and WTI its first in seven as a fresh round of Israel-Hamas ceasefire discussions in Cairo spurred prospects of a breakthrough.Those hopes faded after Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said a date had been set for Israel's invasion of the Rafah enclave in Gaza, IG analyst Tony Sycamore wrote in a note.The continuation of the conflict keeps alive the risk that other countries could be drawn in, especially Iran which is a major Hamas backer and the third-largest producer in the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC).
 
The news published on the date April 09, 2024 04:12 PM IST with headline  Gold hits record high for eighth session in a row is: 
 Gold hits record high for eighth session in a row Gold prices hit a record high for an eighth consecutive session on Tuesday with support from momentum-following funds and inflated geopolitical tensions.Spot gold was up 1.1% at $2,363.42 per ounce by 0936 GMT after hitting a record high of $2,365.09.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Strong underlying momentum with the buy-on-dip still the prevailing strategy among traders," said Ole Hansen, head of commodity strategy at Saxo Bank."Geopolitical risks related to Russia/Ukraine and the Middle East are still playing a supporting role, and the focus is changing from the negative impact of lower rate cut expectations towards higher and sticky inflation," he added.The broader market is waiting for the U.S. Federal Reserve's policy meeting minutes and U.S. inflation data due on Wednesday for fresh signals on future U.S. rate path.
 
The news published on the date April 09, 2024 03:39 PM IST with headline  The lithium world confronts hard truths after epic boom and bust is: 
 The lithium world confronts hard truths after epic boom and bust A stuttering recovery in lithium prices is providing a fresh reminder of why the dramatic rally of recent years was followed by an even more breathtaking collapse: a fast-expanding industry that is more prepared than ever to keep pumping out supplies.Prices have bottomed out but have struggled to meaningfully rebound, partly because miners, refiners and carmakers are still working through a mound of surplus stock clogging up the supply chain. And while some projects and mines were hurt by the pricing plunge, several of the biggest producers insist they’ll keep expanding into the glut, further clouding the outlook for an eventual recovery in prices.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA vital component in rechargeable batteries, lithium has been thrust into the global spotlight as one of the world’s most important commodities. The boom and bust of the past three years has exposed a once-niche and tiny market that is evolving and adjusting in real time to the unprecedented rollout of electric vehicles across the globe.For much of the past year, that has meant reconciling a massive new wave of supply that caught many by surprise, while evidence mounts that EV demand is coming in weaker than expected.Now, a key question facing the industry is whether it’s doomed to repeat the cycle over again. Sharp spikes and plunges make planning difficult for both miners and their customers, but a prolonged bear market on the other hand would put pressure on smaller producers and increase concentration among a handful of powerful suppliers.
 
The news published on the date April 09, 2024 02:42 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Time for an earnings reality check is: 
 The moderation in growth rates at information technology services, oil and gas, metals and mining companies is weighing on earnings expectations. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe benchmark stock market indices Sensex and Nifty extended gains in Tuesday's trading (April 9), clocking new highs. Upbeat macroeconomic data and buoyant retail investors are sending benchmark indices higher.Yet, as valuations turn punchier, investors would do well to turn their focus to earnings, a crucial driver of long-term stock market returns.Worryingly, there seems to be a growing gap between investor expectations and headline earnings numbers.
 
The news published on the date April 09, 2024 12:23 PM IST with headline  Lex | Private equity’s latest trick is to buy and hold is: 
 - Investors should be asking what distinguishes private equity from other, more traditional, investment strategiesWarren Buffett famously said that when he owns outstanding businesses with outstanding management teams, his favourite holding period is “forever”. Fix-and-flip private equity bosses have come round to his way of thinking.Evergreen funds, which do not need to return money to investors within the decade or so of the traditional closed-end fund, are taking off. Their number has doubled over the past five year
 
The news published on the date April 09, 2024 05:34 PM IST with headline  Heatwave's Impact: Why India Cannot Be Complacent About Its Rising Temperatures
 
The news published on the date April 09, 2024 12:04 PM IST with headline  Taiwanese groups consider overseas headquarters to hedge against Chinese attack is: 
 China claims Taiwan as part of its territory and threatens to annex it if Taipei resists unification indefinitely. Kathrin Hille in TaipeiSeveral large Taiwanese manufacturers are considering setting up a second headquarters overseas to ensure they can keep operating in the event of a Chinese attack on their country.The plans, which remain preliminary in most cases, highlight how global efforts to secure supply chains are forcing companies that play a vital role in manufacturing networks, especially for tech products, to make extensive changes.“We have clients who are looking into or planning for setting up
 
The news published on the date April 09, 2024 12:07 PM IST with headline  US junks 200 years of economics to block China clean tech is: 
 Janet Yellen is rejecting fundamental principles of economics to justify a policy of restricting public access to affordable and clean technology. Imagine if a Chinese company announced plans to build the biggest electric-vehicle battery factory the world had ever seen.Up to $5 billion would be spent on a single plant to manufacture more power packs every 12 months than the world produced last year. The sprawling facility might cover 1.5 square miles (4 square kilometers), employ an army of 6,500 people, and drive costs down 30 percent, devastating any competitors that failed to keep pace. The company in question, furthermore, had racked up more than $1 billion of losses over the past seven years, and would post another $5 billion over the coming seven.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdDoes that sound like the definition of predatory overcapacity, hollowing out the world’s manufacturing sector in the service of aggressive Chinese mercantilism? If so, it’s worth considering that the facility we’re talkingabout is how Elon Musk pitched Tesla Inc’s Gigafactory One, a half-hour drive east of Reno, Nevada, when he first announced it 10 years ago.That should be a consideration for Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen, who is visiting China in an attempt to persuade the government and companies that their investments in clean technology are excessive and damaging.“Government support is currently leading to production capacity that significantly exceeds China’s domestic demand, as well as what the global market can bear,” Yellen said in a speech to the American Chamber of Commerce in Guangzhou. That excess is building in “solar, EVs, and lithium-ion batteries,” she said last month at a US solar plant.
 
The news published on the date April 09, 2024 09:46 AM IST with headline  As Atos sinks deeper, it is advantage Indian IT firms is: 
 - HighlightsFrench IT firm Atos SE reported a net loss of $3.7 billion for 2023Atos has $5 billion debt, piled up partly due to its acquisition spree of past yearsAtos’s problems are exacerbated by its unstable top managementAtos’s issues have given an opportunity for Indian IT firms to win business in EuropeIndian IT firms have ensured management stability, in contrast to Ato
 
The news published on the date April 09, 2024 08:36 AM IST with headline  Congress manifesto offers alternative ideology, can the party take it to the masses? is: 
 - For too long, the Congress party has been seen to lack a coherent ideology. The perception in the minds of voters has been that it is a weak party united only in its opposition to the BJP. Apart from a promise of secularism as against the BJP’s Hindutva ideology, a promise considerably weakened by Congress leaders often going in for what is termed ‘soft Hindutva’, little was known about the policies the party stands for. Indeed, i
 
The news published on the date April 09, 2024 08:14 AM IST with headline  India inflation likely cooled in March, albeit slightly is: 
 India inflation likely cooled in March, albeit slightly India's consumer price inflation likely eased to a five-month low of 4.91% in March but was still above the Reserve Bank of India's 4% medium-term target as food price rises persist, according to economists polled by Reuters.RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said last week that food price volatility remains a concern. Food price rises have outpaced headline inflation for several months, affecting millions of poor households already heavily dependent on government food subsidies.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdConsumer price inflation likely eased to 4.91% in March from February's 5.09%, an April 4-8 Reuters poll of 50 economists predicted. Forecasts for the data, which will be released on April 12, ranged from 4.57% to 5.35%."We estimate that CPI inflation moved markedly lower...The disinflation is broadly attributed to easing in momentum across food, fuel and core items, though some base effects also helped," noted Shreya Sodhani, analyst at Barclays.Inflation was expected to return to the RBI's target next quarter but be above it in subsequent quarters, according to a separate Reuters survey on the longer-term outlook.
 
The news published on the date April 09, 2024 06:09 AM IST with headline  India's February silver imports hit record and set to rise 66% this year is: 
 India's February silver imports hit record and set to rise 66% this year India's silver imports surged by 260% in February to a record high, as lower duties encouraged large purchases from the United Arab Emirates (UAE), government and industry officials told Reuters, adding they were on track to increase by 66% this year.Higher demand in India, the world's biggest silver consumer, could support global prices trading near their highest in three years.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndia imported a record 2,295 metric tons of silver in February, up from 637 tons in January, said a government official, who declined to be named as he was not authorised to talk to the media.In February, India imported 939 tons from UAE, as traders bought large volumes to benefit from a lower duty, the official said.The country's silver imports surged to 2,932 tons in the first two months of 2024 compared to 3,625 tons for all of 2023, according to provisional data from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry.
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2024 09:05 PM IST with headline  Mismatch in HRA claims: No special drive launched to reopen cases, CBDT clarifies is: 
 Apprehensions are about retrospective taxation in this matter and re-opening of cases on issues pertaining to HRA claims is completely baseless, CBDT said Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) on April 8 refuted several media reports that claimed a special drive has been initiated to reopen cases of mismatch between house rent allowance (HRA) and actual rent paid by taxpayers.“There is no special drive to re-open cases of mismatch, and media reports alleging that large-scale re-opening is being undertaken by the CBDT are completely misplaced,” the apex direct tax body said in a statement.Story continues below AdvertisementApprehensions are about retrospective taxation in this matter and re-opening of cases on issues pertaining to HRA claims is completely baseless, it added.CBDT said that certain cases of mismatch in information came to the notice of Income Tax department and the taxpayers were alerted to take corrective action.“Data analysis was carried out in some high-value cases of mismatch between the rent paid by the employee and receipt of rent by the recipient for the FY 2020-21. This verification was done in a small number of cases without re-opening bulk of cases, especially since updated return for FY 2020-21 (AY 2021-22) could have been filed by the taxpayers concerned only till 31.03.2024,” CBDT clarified.Moreover, it underscored that the aim of the e-verification process was to inform the mismatches in information for FY20-21 and not to affect others. Reports claiming start of a special drive to re-open previous cases are totally misplaced
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2024 08:55 PM IST with headline  Stocks rise as oil cools; Treasury yields hit four-month high is: 
 Stocks rise as oil cools; Treasury yields hit four-month high Equity indexes advanced slightly on Monday as oil prices retreated after a recent rally while U.S. bond yields hit their highest since late November and investors continued to rein in bets on Federal Reserve interest rate cuts.The dollar index slipped in thin trading as investors focused on U.S. inflation data later this week, while the yen slipped to near 34-year lows versus the greenback as traders remained alert for any potential action from Japanese authorities to support the weakening currency.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOil prices fell on Monday as geopolitical tensions eased somewhat after Israel withdrew more soldiers from southern Gaza. Talks on a truce began on Sunday and continued on Monday although a Hamas official said no progress had been made, despite Egyptian sources saying headway had been achieved."There's a cautious break in the action. After a fairly strong first quarter and questions about Treasury yields and energy prices, investors are taking a break from buying stocks," said Robert Pavlik, senior portfolio manager at Dakota Wealth in Fairfield, Connecticut.While Pavlik said that recent economic data had been encouraging he said investors were questioning "whether it supports this level of stock price."
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2024 08:26 PM IST with headline  US dollar drifts lower ahead of inflation data; yen nears 1990 lows is: 
 US dollar drifts lower ahead of inflation data; yen nears 1990 lows The dollar slipped on Monday in thin trading as investors focused on U.S. inflation data later this week, while the yen slipped to near 34-year lows versus the greenback as traders remained alert for any potential action from Japanese authorities to support the weakening currency.The U.S. dollar fluctuated last week as traders digested a mixed bag of economic data, with a slowdown in services growth followed by unexpectedly strong hiring numbers that prompted the market to pare bets on Federal Reserve rate cuts this year.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe dollar index – which tracks the greenback against six other major currencies – was last down 0.2% at 104.19, while U.S. Treasury yields, which reflect interest rate move expectations, pushed higher.Against the yen, the dollar firmed 0.1% to 151.745, putting it within a whisker of its highest since July 1990.Japanese workers' real wages fell in February for a 23rd consecutive month, data showed on Monday, suggesting higher prices kept up pressure on consumers' spending appetite.
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2024 04:30 PM IST with headline  Gold marches higher on firm demand from top Asian cenbanks is: 
 Gold marches higher on firm demand from top Asian cenbanks Gold prices rose on Monday to hit a record peak for the seventh consecutive session, a move that analysts anticipate could be driven by strong official sector demand from Asia, despite traditional headwinds from a stronger U.S. dollar and elevated interest rates.Spot gold was up 0.3% at $2,335.70 per ounce as of 1002 GMT, after hitting a record high of $2,353.79 earlier in the session. U.S. gold futures gained 0.4% to $2,354.70.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Gold bulls may have taken their latest cues from the People's Bank of China (PBoC), which extended its buying spree of the precious metal for a 17th straight month in March," said Han Tan, chief market analyst at Exinity Group.China held 72.74 million fine troy ounces of gold at the end of March, up from 72.58 million ounces at the end of February, official data showed on Sunday."With the PBoC as well as the Reserve Bank of India soaking up bullion to buffer their respective reserves, this massive buying spree by global central banks is certainly fuelling spot gold's price surge."
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2024 04:27 PM IST with headline  Oil prices edge lower on Middle East ceasefire talks is: 
 Oil prices edge lower on Middle East ceasefire talks Oil drifted lower on Monday after Israel withdrew more soldiers from Gaza and committed to fresh talks on a potential ceasefire in the six-month conflict in the Middle East.Brent crude futures dropped 90 cents or 1%, to $90.27 a barrel by 1000 GMT. U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude was down 86 cents, or about 0.9%, at $86.05.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOil prices had gained about 4% last week on escalating geopolitical tensions.Israel said on Sunday it had withdrawn more soldiers from southern Gaza, leaving only one brigade. The country has been reducing numbers in Gaza since the start of the year to relieve reservists and is under growing pressure from allies to improve the humanitarian situation.Meanwhile, ceasefire talks were revived as Israel and Hamas sent teams to Egypt for talks ahead of the Eid holidays, though a Hamas official on Monday said no progress was made at a new round of talks.
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2024 04:11 PM IST with headline  Rupee settles on flat note at 83.31 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee settles on flat note at 83.31 against US dollar The rupee settled on a flat note on Monday at 83.31 (provisional) against the US dollar, as the support from positive domestic equities was negated by the strength of the American currency in the overseas market. Forex traders said investor sentiments got a boost as crude oil prices retreated from their elevated levels, but the strength of the American currency in the overseas market weighed on the local unit and restricted the uptick.At the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 83.27 against the greenback. The unit hit an intra-day high of 83.23 and a low of 83.33. The local unit finally settled at 83.31 (provisional) against the dollar, unchanged from its previous close.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn Friday, the rupee appreciated 8 paise to close at 83.31 against the US dollar as the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) kept the benchmark interest rate unchanged at 6.5 per cent for the seventh time in a row. "We expect the rupee to trade with a slight positive bias on the rise in risk appetite in global markets on reports that Israel has withdrawn its soldiers from Southern Gaza. FII inflows and strength in the domestic markets may also support the rupee."However, a positive tone in the greenback may cap sharp gains. Investors may remain cautious ahead of inflation data from the US and India later this week. USDINR spot price is expected to trade in the range of Rs 83.10 to Rs 83.50," said Anuj Choudhary, Research Analyst, Sharekhan by BNP Paribas. Meanwhile, the dollar index, which gauges the greenback's strength against a basket of six currencies, was trading 0.07 per cent higher at 104.37 on declining expectations of a rate cut by the US Federal Reserve following a strong jobs report and hawkish comments from Fed officials last week.Brent crude futures, the global oil benchmark, fell 0.92 per cent to USD 90.33 per barrel. On the domestic equity market front, Sensex advanced 494.28 points, or 0.67 per cent, to close at an all-time high of 74,742.50 points. The Nifty rose 152.60 points, or 0.68 per cent, to settle at a lifetime high of 22,666.30 points.
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2024 02:52 PM IST with headline  India turns net importer of finished steel in 2023/24, data shows is: 
 India turns net importer of finished steel in 2023/24, data shows India was a net importer of finished steel during the 2023/24 financial year that ended on March 31, according to provisional government data seen by Reuters on Monday.The country imported 8.3 million metric tons of finished steel between April and March, up 38.1% from a year earlier, the data showed.Story continues below AdvertisementIndia's steel mills have called for government interventions and safeguard measures against surging imports. However, the federal Ministry of Steel has resisted calls for curbs, citing strong local demand.The world's second-biggest crude steel producer remains a bright spot globally with robust demand from its construction and automotive sectors.Steel consumption in India jumped 13.4% to 136 million metric tons during the period, reflecting buoyant demand for the alloy in one of the world's fastest-growing economies.India's steel demand is likely to stay strong as the government expects economic growth will outpace the global economy in the next fiscal year.During 2023/24, India's finished steel exports were at 7.5 million metric tons during 2023/24, up 11.5% on year. Crude steel output stood at 143.6 million metric tons, up 12.9% from a year earlier, data showed.Finished steel output during 2023/24 was 138.5 million metric tons, up 12.4% on year, data showed
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2024 02:42 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Year of the consumer is: 
 Is there something about elections that puts consumers in good humour? Dear Reader,Will this be the year that consumer stocks come back in the reckoning? It’s a question that applies particularly to FMCG companies. Despite being a populous country, with a large and high growth economy, India’s consumption engine did not do as well its investment engine did in FY24. This was particularly true for staples. Investors saw the writing on the wall and consumption indices did not do as well as the broad market did.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhy may FY25 be different? One recent data point is improving consumer confidence. The RBI’s Consumer Confidence survey has shown a jump in March 2024 after showing rather downbeat results in recent years. Manas Chakravarty points out that the 2019 elections too saw March’s survey results point to a boost in consumer confidence. Is there something about elections that puts consumers in good humour? If the trend continues in the rest of the fiscal, then that should be welcome news for consumer companies. It is not leading to spending growth as such, shows the survey. But to know the nuances and the big picture, don’t miss reading it.That spending trends have not changed much, as far as FMCG is concerned, is evident from the preliminary results put out by FMCG companies for the March quarter. They have used words such as sluggish and subdued to describe the market conditions in the sectors they operate in, which cover the entire range from home and personal care to foods. But, that is not reason enough to give their results a miss.They talk about price cuts leading to higher demand in pockets. They mention that gross margins are still fat (the difference between sales and total raw material cost) but are being rendered down by spending more on advertising & promotion and on distribution. In distribution, companies expand their direct reach –as opposed to, say, servicing a market through wholesalers—to newer markets, which eventually leads to better results but requires initial investments. This has served companies such as Nestle India very well in recent years.
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2024 01:44 PM IST with headline  India's fuel demand hits new FY record, up about 5% is: 
 India's fuel demand hits new FY record, up about 5% India's fuel consumption fell 0.6% year-on-year in March, but demand for the 2024 financial year was up about 5%, primarily driven by higher automotive fuel and naphtha sales.Total consumption, a proxy for oil demand, totalled 21.09 million metric tons (4.99 million barrels per day) in March, down from 21.22 million tons (5.02 mbpd) last year, preliminary data from the Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC) of the oil ministry showed on Saturday.Story continues below AdvertisementHowever, fuel demand for the 2024 financial year, ending in March, hit a record high of 233.276 million tons (4.67 mbpd) compared to 223.021 million tons (4.48 mbpd) a year earlier.Sales of diesel, mainly used by trucks and commercially run passenger vehicles, rose 3.1% year-on-year to 8.04 million tons in March and was up 4.4% for the previous fiscal year.Sales of gasoline in March rose 6.9% year-on-year to 3.32 million tons and were up 6.4% for the fiscal year.Sales of bitumen, used for making roads, were largely steady in March, but were up 9.9% for the fiscal year.Sales of cooking gas, or liquefied petroleum gas, rose 8.6% to 2.61 million tons, while naphtha sales jumped 5.5% to about 1.19 million tons, compared with last March, the data showed.The usage of fuel oil fell 9.7% year-on-year in March and declined 6.3% for the fiscal year
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2024 01:01 PM IST with headline  Is Japan finally becoming a ‘normal’ economy? is: 
 Japan’s central bankers and government officials say the country is at a historic inflection point and may finally become a “normal” economy. Kana Inagaki and Leo Lewis in TokyoSimon Kuznets, the Nobel laureate known for his work on standardising the measurement of gross national product, used to group economies into four broad categories: under-developed, developed, Argentina and Japan.From the 1960s, Japan’s extraordinary growth appeared so unique to Kuznets that it warranted its own category. But, starting in the late 1990s, Japan became an outlier in another way: it was the only advanced economy in the world where inflation, interes
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2024 10:59 AM IST with headline  Can power supply manage the twin challenges this summer? is: 
 Enhancing electricity generation is one part of ensuring smooth power supply. (Representative image) HighlightsThe government pulls out all the stops to ensure uninterrupted power supply this summerPower minister R.K. Singh holds review meeting with all stakeholdersPower disruption during the time of election could be embarrassing for the governmentEnhancing electricity generation is one part of ensuring smooth power supplyThere are logistics and other issues that come in the way of meeting peak power demandThe heightened effort to ensure a smooth power supply can put pressure on discom finances and grid infrastructureTh
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2024 09:15 AM IST with headline  Consumer confidence recovers before general election, boosting BJP’s prospects is: 
 The improvement in consumer mood augurs well for the prospects for the BJP. Highlights: Perceptions about employment no longer in negative territoryEmployment perceptions have been net negative consistently since March 2016, with very few exceptionsThere is a similar improvement in the perceptions and expectations of incomeBut spending on discretionary consumption remains subduedThe current situation index---a snapshot of all the consumer confidence indicators-- in the March 2024 survey is at 98.5, the highest since March 2019The message is that urban consumption is ticking up, the recovery fro
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2024 09:52 AM IST with headline  China’s overcapacities are a significant challenge for India and the globe is: 
 In quest for global dominance in geopolitics, China already has built factories in other countries such as Vietnam. Highlights:US has accused China of building overcapacities in key industries which could flood global marketsChina has officially denied overcapacities but its policymakers are aware of the issues at homeBeijing needs to invest for growth, but new energy manufactures and other segments have too much money locked inUS, Europe, Saudi, India and others have set up new energy capacities domestically, putting them at loggerheads with ChinaAmid quest for global dominance in geopolitics, China already has built factories i
 
The news published on the date April 08, 2024 07:16 AM IST with headline  India seeks $100 billion a year in FDI as it woos China hedgers is: 
 India seeks $100 billion a year in FDI as it woos China hedgers India aims to attract at least $100 billion a year in gross foreign direct investment, a top official said, as the South Asian nation courts investors looking to diversify away from China.“Our target is that we will average at least $100 billion over the next five years. The trend is very positive and upward,” Rajesh Kumar Singh, secretary in the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, said in an interview in New Delhi.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe ambitious target compares with an annual average of more than $70 billion in FDI in the five years through March 2023 and would be a reversal in trend after last year’s decline. Singh said that the figure for the current fiscal year will be “closer to” the $100 billion target.The world’s fastest-growing major economy is appealing to businesses that want to hedge against geopolitical tensions by spreading their operations more broadly — sometimes called a “China plus one” strategy. Companies like Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co. have boosted manufacturing in India, taking advantage of incentives offered by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government.Still, foreign investment hasn’t matched the pickup in local manufacturing. Singh attributed that to higher inflation and interest rates in developed nations, as well as geopolitical conflicts and risk perception about emerging markets.
 
The news published on the date April 07, 2024 08:45 PM IST with headline  Janet Yellen says US-China relationship on 'more stable footing' but more can be done to improve ties is: 
 The US has restricted China's access to advanced semiconductors and other technology, saying it could be used for military purposes US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen sent a message of mutual cooperation at a meeting on Sunday with Chinese Premier Li Qiang, highlighting the improvement in relations since her visit to China last year while recognising that major differences remain. After focusing on trade and economic issues for the first two days of her visit, Yellen turned to the broader US-China relationship in the meeting with Li, one of China’s top leaders. After focusing on trade and economic issues for the first two days of her visit, Yellen turned to the broader US-China relationship in the meeting with Li, one of China’s top leaders.While we have more to do, I believe that, over the past year, we have put our bilateral relationship on more stable footing, she said in the ornate Fujian room of the Great Hall of the People on the west side of Tiananmen Square.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdYellen, who is regarded favourably in China, is the first Cabinet member to visit since Presidents Joe Biden and Xi Jinping met in California in November in a carefully orchestrated meeting to set the troubled relationship between their countries on a better course.Li, in remarks before the media before their meeting, said the high media interest in Yellen’s visit shows the high expectation they have … and also the expectation and hope to grow the US-China relationship. China’s emergence as an economic and military power has created a rivalry with the long dominant United States.The US has restricted China’s access to advanced semiconductors and other technology, saying it could be used for military purposes. China, still a middle-income country, accuses the US of trying to constrain its economic development.
 
The news published on the date April 07, 2024 07:00 PM IST with headline  Rate cut may not be soon as these 3 concerns pose upside risk to commodity prices and supply chains is: 
 Reserve Bank of India By Deepak Jasani, head of retail research at HDFC SecuritiesThe RBI MPC (Monetary Policy Committee) voted 5-1 to keep policy repo rate unchanged at 6.5 percent on April 5, maintaining status quo for the seventh time. The MPC is resolute in its commitment to align the CPI to its target of 4 percent as uncertainties in food prices continue to pose challenges. The MPC continued with the ‘withdrawal of accommodation’ stance (with 5:1 majority) to ensure that inflation progressively aligns to the target, while supporting growth. The GDP and inflation forecast for FY25 were maintained at 7 percent and 4.5 percent respectively.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlthough the growth has continued to sustain its momentum surpassing all projections, headline inflation has cooled and core inflation has been the lowest in the past nine months, the MPC remains vigilant to the upside risks to inflation that might derail the path of disinflation. The RBI Governor highlighted global risks from debt overloads and geopolitics, and the recent upturn in oil prices. The RBI retained its inflation forecast for FY25 at 4.5 percent. However, it revised down Q1 forecast by 10 bps to 4.9 percent, and Q2 and Q4 forecast by 20 bps to 3.8 percent and 4.5 percent, respectively.Also read: Adani Green to invest Rs 1.5 lakh cr to build world’s largest renewable energy project: MDLiquidity conditions have improved in recent weeks and the overnight rate (WACR- weighted average call rate) has moved closer to the repo rate. Increased Government spending and foreign inflows due to the inclusion in the JP Morgan bond index are supportive to liquidity conditions.
 
The news published on the date April 07, 2024 06:06 PM IST with headline  RBI presents a balanced policy, change in stance likely in Q2FY25 with 50 bps rate cuts in current financial year is: 
 Reserve Bank of India By Deepak Agrawal, CIO-Debt at Kotak Mahindra AMCThe Reserve Bank of India (RBI) announced the first monetary policy of FY25 on April 5, 2O24. The RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) voted with 5-to-1 majority to keep the key policy repo rate unchanged at 6.50 percent for the seventh consecutive time. The six-member committee also kept the stance unchanged at “withdrawal of accommodation”. One of the MPC members, Professor Jayanth Varma voted to reduce the policy repo rate by 25 basis points (bps) and change in stance to neutral. The transmission of the cumulative 250 bps policy rate hike (since May 2022) into the economy is still underway as per the RBI.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe governor referred “CPI inflation” as the “elephant in the room” and also indicated confidence by stating that “the elephant has now gone out for a walk and appears to be returning to forest”. However, the governor in its commentary mentioned that even though the headline inflation has eased from its December peak, the pressure from food prices is holding back the ongoing disinflation process which is a barrier to achieving a target of 4 percent.Also read: Strong growth momentum, bright outlook keep MPC focused on price stabilityAlso, the MPC left its inflation forecast unchanged at 4.5 percent assuming normal monsoon even though the country braces for extreme summer in the midst of rising crude oil prices and persisting worries about supply chain due to Red Sea crises.
 
The news published on the date April 07, 2024 06:18 PM IST with headline  Adani Green to invest Rs 1.5 lakh cr to build world’s largest renewable energy project: MD is: 
 Vneet Jaain is the Managing Director of Adani Green Energy (AGEL) and also Director at Adani New Industries Limited (ANIL). Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × Adani Green Energy Ltd will invest Rs 1.5 lakh crore to boost capacity to 30 gigawatts (GW) at its Khavda renewable energy project site in Kutch, Gujarat, over the next five years, Managing Director Vneet Jaain told reporters after a site visit.Billionaire Gautam Adani aims to build the world’s largest renewable energy project, spanning 538 sq km of barren land in Khavda, almost the size of Mumbai. Within a year of beginning work, the company has initiated operations for 2GW of the total 30GW planned for the project.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBesides the Rs 1.5 lakh crore on expansion of Khavda project, Adani Green will invest another Rs 50,000 crore on renewable energy projects totalling 6-7 GW in other locations by 2030. The group’s equipment manufacturing arm, Adani New Industries will invest Rs 30,000 crore, taking Adani Group’s total investment to Rs 2.3 lakh crore.“In the ongoing financial year, we are planning to add around 4 GW; it will be 6 GW by March 2025. Subsequent years, we will add 5GW every year…we have plans of setting up in other parts of the country also,” Jaain said.While the 2 GW capacity commissioned at Khavda recently is based on solar power, the project is also setting up wind energy capacity at the same location. The company has already installed windmills and aims to start generating power later this year.
 
The news published on the date April 06, 2024 01:10 PM IST with headline  US and China plan talks on economic growth including manufacturing overcapacity' issue, says US Treasury Secretary Yellen is: 
 Yellen, who started her five-day visit in one of China’s major industrial and export hubs, has focused thus far on what the U.S. considers to be unfair Chinese trade practices in talks with senior Chinese officials. The U.S. and China agreed to hold talks that will address a key American complaint about China’s economic model, Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said on the second day of an official visit to China.The two sides will hold more talks and create two new economic groups dedicated to growth in domestic and global economies as well as anti-money laundering, according to a U.S. statement about the creation of the groups.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdYellen, who started her five-day visit in one of China’s major industrial and export hubs, has focused thus far on what the U.S. considers to be unfair Chinese trade practices in talks with senior Chinese officials.“I think the Chinese realize how concerned we are about the implications of their industrial strategy for the United States, for the potential to flood our markets with exports that make it difficult for American firms to compete,” Yellen told reporters directly after the announcement.“It’s not going to be solved in an afternoon or a month, but I think they have heard that this is an important issue to us.”
 
The news published on the date April 06, 2024 10:01 AM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Weekender | An elephant called Inflation is: 
 The MPC is right to keep up the good fight against inflation Dear Reader,(RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das: "Two years ago, around this time, when CPI Inflation had peaked at 7.8 per cent in April 2022, the elephant in the room was Inflation. The elephant has now gone out for a walk and appears to be returning to the forest. We would like the elephant to return to the forest and remain there on a durable basis.")Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOnce upon a time, deep in the forests of India, there was an elephant named Inflation. Nobody could remember how he came by that name, and one forest guard said the name had probably been given by a drunk economist who had gone to the forest on a safari.Now this elephant one day ventured out of the forest and into the fields, where it gorged on wheat, cabbage, sugarcane, and other such delicacies. He liked the farmlands so much that he made his way further and further into human habitations, ravaging crops and pillaging villages.Rumour has it that he finally found his way to Mumbai, where he settled himself comfortably in a room at the headquarters of the Reserve Bank of India. At least, that is the impression given by this limerick that was reportedly doing the rounds in the city:
 
The news published on the date April 06, 2024 08:01 AM IST with headline  RBI not yet ready for pivot, 100-150 bps repo rate cut likely by FY26, says this chief economist is: 
 Reserve Bank of India By Indranil Pan, Chief Economist at Yes Bank“Last mile of disinflation to be challenging”, this is what the RBI governor had indicated at the February policy. And this probably continues to be the critical theme that continues into April’s policy and could be a determining factor for future policies. By keeping the rates and stance unchanged, RBI reiterated its commitment to bringing inflation to the 4 percent target on a durable basis.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAs per RBI’s and our own projections, CPI inflation would come close to (even go below) the 4 percent target only in Q2FY25, taking away any chance of an early policy pivot. Patience is thus warranted. Even the global atmosphere of a rate cutting cycle is getting into an uncertain zone with most data prints from the US indicating towards a stronger economy there. And even as the last dot-plot indicates 75-bps rate cuts, the recent Fed talk has effectively been pointing to a lower extent of rate cuts in 2024.So, what are the inflation challenges for now and for the medium term. The inflation concerns for the RBI remains hinged on the food prices outlook. In this sense, the RBI would be closely monitoring the Rabi harvesting trends (early start in Rajasthan and MP is a positive), southweat monsoon trends (El Nino is reported to be ebbing and give way to La Nina in June-August), and any vegetable shocks like in 2023.Also read: RBI Monetary Policy: Trend of lower yields to continue
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 10:59 PM IST with headline  Gold shatters record roof, heads for third straight weekly gain on buying momentum is: 
 Gold shatters record roof, heads for third straight weekly gain on buying momentum Gold prices climbed on Friday to hit a fresh record high, as multiple factors including U.S. interest rate cut bets, speculative buying and central bank purchases kept bullion's record rally active despite strong U.S. job growth in March.Spot gold gained 1.3% to $2,320.04 per ounce, as of 10:57 a.m. EDT (1456 GMT), after hitting a record high of $2,324.79 earlier in the session. Bullion has risen 3.8% so far this week and is headed for a third straight weekly gain.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdU.S. gold futures edged 1.4% higher to $2,339.70.There are too many capital inflows and everybody is chasing the market high, which is helping gold prices along with strong central bank purchases and speculative buying, said Phillip Streible, chief market strategist at Blue Line Futures in Chicago.Meanwhile, nonfarm payrolls increased by 303,000 jobs last month, the Labor Department said in its employment report on Friday. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast 200,000 jobs, with estimates ranging from 150,000 to 250,000.
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 10:14 PM IST with headline  Strong will power, target of self-reliance behind defence exports crossing Rs 20k cr: Rajnath Singh is: 
 Union defence minister Rajnath Singh with Network18 Group Editor-in-Chief Rahul Joshi Strong will power and the current government’s vision to become self-reliant in every sector were the factors behind India’s defence exports jumping above Rs 20,000 crore in FY24, said Union minister and senior BJP leader Rajnath Singh in an exclusive interview with Network18 Group Editor-in-Chief Rahul Joshi.“If India has to achieve self-reliance in every matter, then India should achieve self-reliance in matters of defence also. This was his (Prime Minister Narendra Modi's) resolution and on the basis of this resolution, we took our steps forward and today our export target of more than Rs 20,000 crores has been reached,” Singh said during the interview.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHe added further that the value of exports will increase in the next few months.“Now defence equipment is also needed, whether it is tanks, cannons, shells, weapons, ammunitions, they should be made in India and by the hands of Indians. Even engines, engines of fighter planes, we have made an agreement for that too,” the minister said.On asked if the pace of the Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) will increase considering the fact that the Chinese Navy has a bigger fleet of submarines and warships compared to India, the minister said, “It will happen fast. It is already happening fast. In the next term, people will start seeing its results.”
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 06:58 PM IST with headline  US job growth beats expectations in March; wages increase steadily is: 
 US job growth beats expectations in March; wages increase steadily US employers hired far more workers than expected March while raising wages, suggesting the economy ended the first quarter on solid ground and potentially delaying anticipated interest rate cuts from the Federal Reserve this year.Nonfarm payrolls increased by 303,000 jobs last month, the Labor Department's Bureau of Labor Statistics said in its closely watched employment report on Friday. Data for February was revised slightly lower to show 270,000 jobs added instead of 275,000 as previously reported.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEconomists polled by Reuters had forecast 200,000 jobs, with estimates ranging from 150,000 to 250,000.The economy is outshining its global peers, despite 525 basis points worth of rate hikes from the U.S. central bank since March 2022 to quell inflation. Economists say most businesses locked in lower borrowing costs prior to the Fed's tightening cycle, providing some insulation from higher rates and allowing them to keep their workers.Household balance sheets are mostly healthy, helping to support consumer spending. The labor market has also benefited from a rise in immigration over the past year. Easing financial conditions are boosting hiring in interest rate-sensitive industries like construction, which should provide a base for job growth even as payroll gains are expected to slow.
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 06:57 PM IST with headline  Gold set for third weekly rise, investors brace for US jobs data is: 
 Spot gold was up 0.1% at $2,291.20 per ounce, as of 1214 GMT, after hitting a record high of $2,305.04 on Thursday. Bullion has risen 2.6% so far this week. Gold prices were headed for their third straight week of gains on Friday ahead of the much-awaited U.S. non-farm payrolls data, supported by strong safe-haven inflows and prospects for lower U.S. interest rates this year.Spot gold was up 0.1% at $2,291.20 per ounce, as of 1214 GMT, after hitting a record high of $2,305.04 on Thursday. Bullion has risen 2.6% so far this week.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdU.S. gold futures edged 0.1% higher to $2,310.40."The upward trajectory of gold prices over the past two months can be attributed to heightened geopolitical instability and anticipations of Federal Reserve rate cuts in the first half of the year," said Ricardo Evangelista, senior analyst at ActivTrades.The U.S. employment data could potentially either affirm the recent hawkish Fed stance, advocating for sustained higher rates, or alter that trajectory, reigniting expectations of an initial rate cut in June, Evangelista added.
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 06:10 PM IST with headline  India's forex kitty jumps $2.95 billion to new all-time high of $645.58 billion is: 
 India's forex kitty jumps $2.95 billion to new all-time high of $645.58 billion India's foreign exchange reserves increased USD 2.951 billion to USD 645.583 billion for the week ended March 29, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said on Friday.This is the sixth consecutive week of a jump in overall reserves. The kitty had increased USD 140 million to USD 642.631 billion in the previous reporting week.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe country's forex kitty had in September 2021 reached an all-time high of USD 642.453 billion. The reserves took a hit as the central bank deployed the kitty to defend the rupee amid pressures caused majorly by global developments since last year.For the week ended March 29, the foreign currency assets, a major component of the reserves, increased USD 2.354 billion to USD 570.618 billion, data released on Friday showed.Expressed in dollar terms, the foreign currency assets include the effect of appreciation or depreciation of non-US units like the euro, pound, and yen held in the foreign exchange reserves.Gold reserves increased USD 673 million to USD 52.16 billion during the week, the RBI said.The Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) were down USD 73 million to USD 18.145 billion, the apex bank said.India's reserve position with the IMF was also down USD 2 million to USD 4.66 billion in the reporting week, the apex bank data showed. PTI AA TRBStory continues below Advertisemen
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 06:05 PM IST with headline  Dollar stirred up by geopolitics, pre-jobs jitters is: 
 Dollar stirred up by geopolitics, pre-jobs jitters The dollar headed for its first weekly loss in a month on Friday, but pulled away from two-week lows, ahead of a key U.S. jobs report later in the day, while tensions in the Middle East kept investors on edge.Demand for safe-haven currencies, along with more warnings from Japanese authorities, helped send the yen to two-week highs against the dollar.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdInvestors are wary of developments in the Middle East after U.S. President Joe Biden threatened on Thursday to condition support for Israel's offensive in Gaza on it taking concrete steps to protect aid workers and civilians.The dollar has had a turbulent week, falling from a five-month high to a two-week low after an unexpected slowdown in U.S. services growth supported expectations of the Federal Reserve bringing interest rates down.It then rebounded after comments on Thursday from Minneapolis Federal Reserve President Neel Kashkari, who is not a voter on this year's policy-setting committee, that rate cuts might not be required this year if inflation continues to stall.
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 05:13 PM IST with headline  Business in the Week Ahead (April 8-12, 2024) is: 
 India is keeping a premium when it comes to market valuation. Will this trend gain further momentum? It’s a script that was more or less known. A central bank that is known to play its cards with ample care, the RBI chose not to upset the applecart by keeping the policy rate steady at 6.5 percent. It’s mindful of the fact that core inflation is in decline, but didn’t want to lower its guard against any nasty surprise on the seasonal food inflation front.When is the pivot coming then? Well, that depends on th
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 04:53 PM IST with headline  The Trump tax cuts were neither panacea nor rip-off is: 
 Teasing out precisely what effect the Trump tax cuts had on a particular company’s investment decisions requires a deep dive into financial and tax records. Back in 2017, the debate around President Donald Trump’s tax cuts was a case study in how quickly a discussion around legitimate policy can descend into partisan nonsense. On one side, Republicans spouted unfounded claims that the tax cuts would pay for themselves. On the other, Democrats spouted equally unfounded claims that only big business and the wealthy would benefit.As usual, the truth landed somewhere in the middle. No, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 didn’t pay for itself but at this moment reversing the marquee part of the legislation - lower tax rates for companies — to help narrow the bulging budget deficit is the last thing we should do. And while the cuts yielded benefits to Americans up and down the income scale, the benefits could best be described as modest.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdUnderstanding what the legislation did and didn’t do is relevant now because they expire in 2025, and whoever wins this year’s presidential election will have to decide whether to extend them. What’s not in dispute is that the act represented the most sweeping overhaul the tax system since the Reagan administration. For businesses, it aimed to spur capital spending by slashing the corporate tax from 35 percent to 21 percent. For individuals, it lowered rates across the board and simplified the code by limiting itemised deductions, increasing the standard deduction taken by those who don’t itemise and expanding access to the child tax credit.The problem now is that largely because of fiscal spending to support the economy through the pandemic, the federal budget deficit has expanded to 6.44 percent of gross domestic product from 4.67 percent at the end of 2019, which at the time was the biggest shortfall since 2013. Also, the cost of servicing the deficit by borrowing has soared along with benchmark interest rates the last two years. For this reason alone, it’s possible some, but not all, the cuts will reversed. But which ones? Whatever is decided, the corporate cuts are probably the last thing we want to repeal.Despite the insistence of Republicans, who point to the rise in federal revenue following 2017, we can’t shrink the deficit by further reducing taxes. In 2022, federal revenue came in at $4.9 trillion, far higher than the $4.2 trillion predicted by the bi-partisan Congressional Budget Officebefore the tax cuts. Two factors are responsible for the outperformance. One, capital gains tax revenue jumped following the stock market’s big rally in 2020 and 2021. Two, a worker shortage during the pandemic caused wages to rise by almost 5 percent over the course of 2021. Higher wages not only led to higher incomes but also pushed many Americans into higher tax brackets, thereby increasing revenue.
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 04:18 PM IST with headline  The Reading List: April 5, 2024 is: 
 A selection of articles and social media gems curated by our research and opinion teams. In a world strapped for time, we thought you may find it useful to have a selection of articles we read this past week. As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. Occasionally, we may stray from these subjects.These links may be from external websites we frequen
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 04:06 PM IST with headline  Rupee ends higher on foreign, state-run banks' dollar sales; rises on week is: 
 Rupee ends higher on foreign, state-run banks' dollar sales; rises on week The Indian rupee rose on Friday, bolstered by dollar sales from foreign and state-run banks and after the Indian central bank kept rates unchanged for a seventh consecutive meeting.The rupee closed at 83.2950 against the U.S dollar, up nearly 0.2% compared with its close of 83.4375 in the previous session.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe currency logged a gain of 0.1% week-on-week, rebounding from a record low of 83.4550 hit on Thursday.Dollar sales picked up after the rupee managed to hold above 83.45 despite a raft of weak global cues, a FX trader at a foreign bank said.Brent crude oil prices rising above $90 per barrel for the first time since October and hawkish comments from Federal Reserve policymakers weighed early in the session.
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 04:00 PM IST with headline  Strong growth momentum, bright outlook keep MPC focused on price stability is: 
 Over the course of the year, if the baseline growth and inflation forecast trajectories materialize, without any significant deviations caused by the risks, then room will open up for the MPC to shift to a neutral stance and cut rates HighlightsThe RBI reiterated its baseline real GDP growth forecast of 7% for FY2024-25Baseline average CPI inflation forecast was revised marginally lower to 4.5% for the yearThe room for monetary easing in FY25 is limited, as the Monetary Policy Report projects the inflation target of 4% may only be achieved in the next fiscal yearRBI Governor Das said that high and persistent food inflation can unhinge otherwise anchored household inflation expectationsPrivate consumptio
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 02:54 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | RBI Monetary Policy: The elephant has left the room is: 
 RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFor central bankers, price stability is a dream come true and they would do anything to make that happen. If you were Jerome Powell, Chairman of the US Federal Reserve, you would coerce, cajole, and confuse the markets until you achieve price stability -- the Fed’s tactical game right now is to keep markets guessing aka confuse.But for Shaktikanta Das, Governor of the Reserve Bank of India, the final fight to bring inflation down to the desired 4 percent is turning out to be easier than thought. For starters, the RBI has projected the headline consumer price index inflation to be 4.5 percent for FY25, just a shade higher than the desired target. It has also projected gross domestic product (GDP) growth to be 7 percent. Had it not been an inflation targeting central bank, this combination of low inflation and reasonable growth would have already made the RBI cut policy rates to bring back the economy to that coveted potential growth rate -- which now is agreed to be 8 percent.For now, Das is content with using a pachyderm as a metaphor for inflation. “Two years ago, around this time, when CPI inflation had peaked at 7.8 percent in April 2022, the elephant in the room was inflation. The elephant has now gone out for a walk and appears to be returning to the forest. We would like the elephant to return to the forest and remain there on a durable basis,” Das said in his statement today.
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 01:48 PM IST with headline  Rate cut cycle of RBI likely to be shallower than those of global central banks: Unmesh Kulkarni of Julius Baer India is: 
 Reserve Bank of India By Unmesh Kulkarni, managing director senior advisor at Julius Baer IndiaThe RBI monetary policy announcement was completely on expected lines. Almost the entire market was expecting a status quo on policy rates, and RBI did just that. There were some expectations building that RBI would start signaling a softening of its policy stance, however the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) voted with a clear majority of 5:1 to continue with the “withdrawal of accommodation” stance.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn the MPC’s assessment, the growth-inflation dynamics has played out favorably, and the policy actions seem to be having the desired impact on bringing inflation down, while supporting growth.RBI finds the current growth conditions quite favourable, primarily driven by industrial and manufacturing activity, along with buoyant services and urban consumption, and a recovering rural economy. The prospects for investment activity remain bright, fueled by rising capacity utilisation, improving business confidence, an upturn in private capex cycle, robust government expenditure and healthy corporate balance sheets. The RBI MPC’s forecast for GDP growth is largely unchanged (7 percent in FY25), with some minor tweaks in the quarterly numbers.The MPC is quite satisfied that the inflation prints, especially the core CPI, have been on a downward trajectory. However, the Governor emphasised that there is considerable uncertainty around the food inflation trajectory, although healthy rabi production should alleviate conditions and a likely early monsoon should augur well for the kharif crop.
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 01:36 PM IST with headline  RBI to undertake study after May to assess India’s potential growth is: 
 RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will undertake a study to assess India’s potential growth and real growth rate after the estimate of national income for 2023-24 is released at the end of May, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das said on Friday.“We will undertake a study after the final GDP numbers for the year 2023-24 are released at the end of May. We will undertake a state study to assess the potential growth and the real growth rate and maybe thereafter we can sort of provide some additional information,” Das said at a press briefing post the monetary policy.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe provisional estimates of national income for 2023-24 will be released on May 31. “When the average growth over a three year period is 8 percent. Naturally, our potential growth also appears to have grown and gone up. So, therefore, the potential growth and the real rate have to be seen in that context,” Das said.Going by the National Statistical Office (NSO) forecast of 7.6 percent growth for the year 2023-24, the average for the three years 2021-22, 2022-23 and 2023-24 will work out at about 8 percent.The monetary policy committee kept the estimates of GDP growth for the year 2024-25 unchanged at 7 percent. FY25 will be the fourth consecutive year of 7 percent and above growth.
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 02:16 PM IST with headline  Eight percent growth projection for India not ours: IMF is: 
 Eight percent growth projection for India not ours: IMF The recent remarks of Krishnamurthy Subramanian, Executive Director at the International Monetary Fund, about India's growth figures does not represent the views of the IMF and were in his role as India's representative at the global body, the IMF has said."The views conveyed ...by Mr. Subramanian were in his role as India's representative at the IMF," Julie Kozack, IMF spokesperson, told reporters here on Thursday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdShe was responding to a question on recent remarks by Subramanian, in which he projected a growth rate of 8 per cent for India, which is different from the last growth rate projections by the IMF.Subramanian, at a event in New Delhi on March 28, had said Indian economy could grow at 8 per cent till 2047, if the country redoubles the good policies that it has implemented over the last 10 years and accelerate reforms."So, the basic idea is that with the kind of growth that India has registered in the last 10 years, if we can redouble the good policies that we have implemented over the last 10 years and accelerate the reforms, then India can grow at 8 per cent from here on till 2047," he had said.
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 12:28 PM IST with headline  RBI MPC Highlights: Here are the key takeaways
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 02:17 PM IST with headline  India to stop importing urea by 2025 end: Mansukh Mandaviya is: 
 India to stop importing urea by 2025 end: Mansukh Mandaviya India will by the end of 2025 stop importing urea as a massive push for domestic manufacturing has helped bridge the gap between supply and demand, Chemicals and Fertilisers Minister Mansukh Mandaviya has said.In an interaction with PTI, the minister noted that the availability of fertilisers is very important for Indian agriculture.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHe said the country has been using chemical fertilisers for the last 60-65 years to enhance crop production.Now, Mandaviya said, the government is making efforts to promote alternate fertilisers like nano liquid urea and nano liquid di-ammonium phosphate (DAP)."Use of alternate fertilisers is good for crops and soil health. We are promoting it," he said.
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 11:28 AM IST with headline  What the BJP and other political parties need to take away from the India Skills Report is: 
 The overall workforce employability rate has risen to 52.3 percent in the decade of Modi Sarkar HighlightsIndian Skills report in 2014 showed just 34 percent of fresh graduates were employableUnder BJP-NDA, employability has risen to 52.3 percent among graduatesTelangana, Kerala, Maharashtra lead the employability score for 18-21 age groupEmployability in different age groups throw up different states as leadersJobseekers have voted for acquiring English skills as against political agenda to push state languagesStates with improved employability scores do not have employment opportunitie
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 02:03 PM IST with headline  Centre aims 7-fold jump in wheat procurement from UP, Rajasthan, Bihar this year is: 
 Centre aims 7-fold jump in wheat procurement from UP, Rajasthan, Bihar this year Amid the heat of the ongoing Lok Sabha electioneering, the Centre has announced plans to significantly increase wheat purchase from non-traditional states of Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Bihar and set a target of seven-fold jump in procurement to 50 lakh tonnes in the ongoing 2024-25 marketing year.Further, even as the ban on outbound shipments of wheat continues, "it will be a dream for us to export now", Food Secretary Sanjeev Chopra told reporters on Thursday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"UP, Bihar, and Rajasthan have been contributing much less than they could have. We are targeting total wheat procurement of 310 lakh tonne this year. Of which, we are hoping to procure at least 50 lakh tonne from three non-traditional procurement states alone," he said.While Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Bihar put together contributed only 6.7 lakh tonnes to the central pool during the 2023-24 marketing year (April-March), the Union Food Ministry has decided to procure 16 per cent of the total wheat procurement target of 310 lakh tonne set for 2024-25.Wheat procurement at minimum support price (MSP) is normally undertaken by the Centre's nodal agency Food Corporation of India (FCI) and state agencies. However, cooperatives Nafed and NCCF have also been roped in with a procurement target of 5 lakh each this year.
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 10:17 AM IST with headline  No proposal to resume sale of subsidised rice for ethanol production: Food secretary is: 
 No proposal to resume sale of subsidised rice for ethanol production: Food secretary The government has no proposal to resume sale of subsidised rice to grain-based distilleries for the production of ethanol, Food Secretary Sanjeev Chopra said."Since July last year, rice has not been diverted for ethanol production. There is no proposal as of now to revisit that policy," Chopra told reporters on Thursday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdHe was responding to questions on whether the government plans to resume the sale of subsidised rice for ethanol in the near future amid reports of likely fall in sugar production in the 2024-25 season (October-September).The rice sale for ethanol makers was discontinued for various reasons, including apprehensions about domestic output and high retail prices, and economic unviability, he said.On the impact on investments on grain-based distilleries, Chopra said, "This is not a policy which is cast in stone. This policy will be renewed... Maize is being encouraged for ethanol production." As of now, there is a huge jump in ethanol made from maize. About 50 crore litres of ethanol made from maize has been supplied in the 2024-25 supply year, he said.
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 09:07 AM IST with headline  Free market or investor protection, what will serve India’s F&O traders better? is: 
 Retail participation in Indian F&O markets had jumped more than six-fold from 7.1 lakh in FY19 to 45.2 lakh in FY22. India’s derivatives market has undergone a systemic shift after the pandemic. The average daily turnover in India’s F&O segment has seen a tremendous jump from less than Rs 10 lakh crore in FY19 to more than Rs 300 lakh crore in FY24. Almost all of this increase has come from retail investors. had jumped more than six-fold from 7.1 lakh in FY19 to 45.2 lakh in FY22. The numbers hav
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 08:45 AM IST with headline  Green shoots in rural demand? is: 
 Comments on the Jan-March 2024 quarter results by company managements will soon tell us whether the rural turnaround is for real We’ve heard a lot about problems in rural demand and one indicator that is often cited in this regard is stagnation in real rural wages. Companies, especially FMCG firms, have also complained about low rural demand. Recently, however, reports have been seen about a turnaround in rural consumption. , for instance, talks about rural demand improving on the back of construction and real estate activity. Some reports say that volume growth in rural market
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 08:47 AM IST with headline  Personal Finance: Four financial rules that you should not take seriously is: 
 All money is decent enough to make a start– whether it is small or large On April Fool’s Day (which was on Monday), a friend posted on a group the performance of a few public sector banks that delivered absolute returns above 300 per cent over a period of four years.Why four years? Because the market slumped abysmally in the end-March to mid-April 2020 period when the pandemic hit. The banks that delivered absolute returns above 300 per cent were led by Canara Bank at 610 per cent and Bank of Indi
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 08:28 AM IST with headline  Chart of the Day: Competition queers the pitch for policy transmission by banks is: 
 Competition is making transmission tricky The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) began the current rate hike cycle in May 2022 when it first hiked its repo rate by 40 basis points (bps). A basis point is one hundredth of a percentage point. When policy rates are hiked, banks are expected to transmit the same onto their lending and deposit rates. Simply put, monetary policy’s effect depends on how much of the policy rate changes are passed on to borrowers and savers. Sinc
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 01:45 PM IST with headline  RBI MPC Meet Highlights: Shaktikanta Das announces key rates unchanged; GDP growth forecast retained, CPI inflation revised for Q1 and Q2 for FY25
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 09:54 PM IST with headline  CBDT enables ITR filing for FY24; 23,000 returns filed in 4 days is: 
 This is for the first time in recent years that the Income Tax department has enabled taxpayers to file their I-T Returns on the first day of the new financial year The Income Tax department on Thursday said ITRs 1, 2, 4 and 6 have been made available on e-filing portal from April 1, 2024, and about 23,000 returns have already been filed for the 2023-24 fiscal year.This is for the first time in recent years that the Income Tax department has enabled taxpayers to file their I-T Returns on the first day of the new financial year and, is a step towards ease of compliance and seamless taxpayer services.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdITR Form 1 (Sahaj) and ITR Form 4 (Sugam) are simpler forms that cater to a large number of small and medium taxpayers. ITR-2 is filed by people having income from residential property).In a statement, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said it has facilitated taxpayers to file their Income Tax Returns (ITRs) for the 2024-25 Assessment Year (relevant to Financial Year 2023-24) from April 1, 2024.“The ITRs — i.e. ITR-1, ITR-2 and ITR-4 — commonly used by taxpayers are available on the e-filing portal from April 1, 2024 onwards for taxpayers to file their returns. Companies will also be able to file their ITRs through ITR-6 from April 1 onwards,” the CBDT said.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 09:17 PM IST with headline  US trade deficit widens in February on strong imports is: 
 The trade deficit increased 1.9% to $68.9 billion, the Commerce Department's Bureau of Economic Analysis said The U.S. trade deficit widened for a second straight month in February as an increase in exports to a record high was offset by surging imports, suggesting trade could be a drag on economic growth in the first quarter.The trade deficit increased 1.9% to $68.9 billion, the Commerce Department's Bureau of Economic Analysis said on Thursday. Data for January was revised slightly to show the trade gap rising to $67.6 billion instead of $67.4 billion as previously reported. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast the deficit little changed at $67.3 billion in February.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhen adjusted for inflation, the goods trade deficit increased 1.2% to $87.0 billion in February.Most of the imported goods likely ended up as inventories, which could offset the anticipated hit on gross domestic product from the widening trade gap.Trade added 0.25 percentage point to the economy's 3.4% annualized growth rate in the fourth quarter after being neutral for two straight quarters. Growth estimates for the first quarter are currently as high as a 2.8% pace.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 06:57 PM IST with headline  US weekly jobless claims increase more than expected is: 
 Initial claims for state unemployment benefits rose 9,000 to a seasonally adjusted 221,000 for the week ended March 30, the Labor Department said on Thursda The number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits increased more than expected last week as labor market conditions gradually ease.Initial claims for state unemployment benefits rose 9,000 to a seasonally adjusted 221,000 for the week ended March 30, the Labor Department said on Thursday. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast 214,000 claims in the latest week.Claims had bounced around between 212,000 and 210,000 for much of March. There were 1.36 job openings for every unemployed person in February compared to 1.43 in January, government data showed this week.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWorker shortages persist in industries like construction.Though layoffs increased to a 14-month high in March, job cuts were little changed compared to the same period last year.Labor market resilience is anchoring the economy, with gross domestic product increasing at a brisk 3.4% annualized rate in the fourth quarter. Growth estimates for the first quarter are as high as a 2.8% pace. That strength, combined with still-high inflation, could see the Federal Reserve delaying a much anticipated interest rate cut this year.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 08:59 PM IST with headline  The US Fed is wrong about how low interest rates will go is: 
 While the Fed’s projections for 2024 look likely to be more accurate than the market’s at the start of the year, this time around it’s the central bank, not the market, that will probably have to adjust. Financial markets and the US Federal Reserve remain in disagreement on a subject crucial to asset prices and economic growth: how low interest rates will eventually go.Betting against the Fed is a fraught endeavour. Nonetheless, in this case I think the market is right.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMarkets and the Fed now agree about 2024: Futures prices are consistent with officials’ median estimate of 75 basis points of cuts in the federal funds rate. Yet forecasts for the next few years diverge. Futures indicate that short-term interest rates will bottom out at about 3.75 percent in 2027, while the median forecast among members of the policy-making Federal Open Market Committee is 2.6 percent — more than 100 basis points lower.Why the difference? I see two reasons. First, market participants expect average inflation to be higher than the Fed’s 2 percent target. This makes sense, because the target is asymmetric: The central bank is committed to offsetting downside misses with comparable misses to the upside, but not the other way around. Chair Jerome Powell never talks about pushing inflation below 2 percent to offset the high readings of recent years, and official projections don’t indicate any such intention. As a result, average inflation should exceed 2 percent. The greater the volatility of inflation over time, the larger the divergence should be.Second, the market appears to have a higher estimate of the neutral federal funds rate — the level, known as r*, that neither stimulates nor restrains growth. Various developments support this. For one, the economy has remained strong even as the Fed has increased its target rate by 525 basis points, suggesting that the current level of 5.25 percent to 5.50 percent might not be as restrictive as officials expected. Increased productivity growth, together with the AI boom, should stimulate greater investment and hence nudge equilibrium interest rates upward. Declining savings push in the same direction: The federal government is running vast budget deficits, while soaring asset prices have boosted household wealth, leading the personal savings rate to decline to 3.6 percent of disposable income, from an average of 5.7 percent in the decade following the 2008 financial crisis.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 04:32 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Rising oil prices will be a headache for the MPC is: 
 According to industry veterans, if oil price continues to rise, it may impact the marketing margins of oil marketing companies. Dear Readers,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Crude oil is sizzling in international markets. From the lows of $72-73 per barrel in early 2023, Brent crude oil price touched $89.6 in April, scaling this level for the second time in 12 months.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe reasons are many, from concerns of disruption in crude supplies due to geopolitical risks in the Middle-East and the Russia-Ukraine region, the protracted Red Sea crisis and low US inventory, to elevated global demand on the back of strong US jobs and factory orders data, signs of China’s growth limping back and an overall expansion in the global economy that indicates improved energy demand.Even if oil prices stay sticky at current levels, other things being constant, these reasons would surely cap downsides. The near $20 dollar per barrel (in a year) rise in international crude oil prices in a year is bound to have cost implications for most countries, albeit in varying degrees.Surging oil prices are a negative for India. It signals energy-led inflation, given that it imports about 85 per cent of its crude oil requirement. In other words, it impacts almost all sectors of the economy. This is more pertinent against the backdrop of a robust domestic economy that, according to analysts, is far larger than it was in 2008 or 2013-14.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 04:32 PM IST with headline  UK on track to exit recession despite slower services growth, PMI data shows is: 
 The S&P Global Composite Purchasing Managers’ Index – which covers private-sector services and manufacturing firms – edged down to 52.8 in March from February’s 53.0 (Photo-Bloomberg) Britain's economy looks on track to exit recession when official first-quarter growth data is next published, despite a slowdown in services activity last month, a closely watched business survey showed on Thursday.The S&P Global Composite Purchasing Managers' Index - which covers private-sector services and manufacturing firms - edged down to 52.8 for Britain in March from February's 53.0.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThis was just below a provisional reading of 52.9 but above the 50 level that divides growth from contraction for a fifth consecutive month.The survey showed British businesses faring better than peers in France and Germany - where activity contracted - but lagging behind expansions in Italy and Spain."The solid growth rate achieved in March reinforces the view that a rebound in service sector performance is helping the UK economy to pull out of last year's shallow recession," Tim Moore, S&P Global's economics director, said.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 03:58 PM IST with headline  Veg thali gets dearer by 7% in March on onion, tomato price surge: Crisil is: 
 The cost of a vegetable thali -- comprising roti, vegetables (onions, tomatoes and potatoes), rice, dal, curd and salad -- increased to Rs 27.3 per plate in March from Rs 25.5 in the year-ago period The cost of a vegetarian thali became dearer by 7 per cent in March primarily due to the rise in onion, tomato, and potato prices, an arm of domestic rating agency Crisil said on Thursday. A cool down in poultry prices led to a 7 per cent decline in non-vegetarian thali, Crisil Market Intelligence and Analysis said in its monthly ”Roti Rice Rate” report.The cost of a vegetable thali — comprising roti, vegetables (onions, tomatoes and potatoes), rice, dal, curd and salad — increased to Rs 27.3 per plate in March from Rs 25.5 in the year-ago period, but was cheaper than Rs 27.4 in February 2024, it said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"The cost of the veg thali increased due to a surge of 40 per cent, 36 per cent and 22 per cent on-year in prices of onion, tomato and potato, respectively, due to lower arrivals of onion and potato and low base of last fiscal for tomatoes,” the report said. ”The cost of the veg thali increased due to a surge of 40 per cent, 36 per cent and 22 per cent on-year in prices of onion, tomato and potato, respectively, due to lower arrivals of onion and potato and low base of last fiscal for tomatoes,” the report said.The report also noted that due to lower arrivals, prices of rice increased 14 per cent and pulses by 22 per cent when compared to the year-ago period. In the case of non-veg thali, in which only dal gets replaced by chicken, the price declined to Rs 54.9 as against Rs 59.2 in the year-ago period, but was higher when compared with Rs 54 per thali in preceding February.In the case of non-veg thali, in which only dal gets replaced by chicken, the price declined to Rs 54.9 as against Rs 59.2 in the year-ago period, but was higher when compared with Rs 54 per thali in preceding February.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 07:11 PM IST with headline  American exceptionalism on display in the bond market is: 
 The US economy is on a healthier endogenous growth path compared with Europe. Many of us have our favorite economic and financial indicators. I’m referring to those indicators that don’t get a lot - if any - attention from the television channels geared toward finance and markets and yet can provide important insights. One of my favorites - the divergence between key US and German fixed-income benchmarks - is at a notable level.More specifically, I’m talking about the difference between the yield on the 10-year US Treasury note and its counterpart in Germany (which also serves as a benchmark for much of Europe). In early trading Wednesday, this differential had risen to 200 basis points in favor of the US, a level only reached three times since the start of 2020. Moreover, and as shown in the chart below, it is now well above the low over the past three years of 90 basis points and just short of the high of 214 basis points.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTwo major developments have driven the recent widening. One is that US economic data overall has been stronger than consensus forecasts. The other is lower-than-expected euro zone inflation data.Fundamentally, the widening captures the dominance of American economic exceptionalism over European economic stagnation, illustrated most comprehensively by the contrast between 4% growth in US gross domestic product in the second half of 2024 and recession in Germany. With that comes a divergence in inflation rates, with US price increases proving more stubborn than Europe’s in what many view as the “last mile” in central banks’ battle against inflation.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 04:33 PM IST with headline  Exporters unable to leverage rupee depreciation to boost export order value: Industry is: 
 The rupee may stay under pressure in the near term. Despite the rupee hovering around 83.40 to the dollar, exporters are not able to leverage the price competitiveness to boost exports due to a paucity of foreign exchange with India’s major export destinations, stakeholders said.“There is a forex crisis in Bangladesh, the biggest trading partner with India for engineering goods. There is a tremendous dollar shortage in that country. Exports are not growing to Bangladesh, on the contrary its gone down. We are exporting to Latin America, African countries, they all have a problem of foreign exchange. It affects our exports, we are not able to grow exports substantially,” Arun Kumar Garodia, chairman, Engineering Exports Promotion Council of India (EEPC India), told Moneycontrol.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndia’s engineering exports in the five months to February rose by only 2 percent, he said.“Countries like Zambia, Kenya, Tanzania, Mozambique, Nigeria, Angola and Latin America are facing dollar unavailability. Exporters are facing huge cash flow challenges, the major issue being the availability of foreign currency in these countries,” Sandeep Modi, joint secretary, Federation of Pharmaceutical and Allied Products Merchant Exporters (FPME), told Moneycontrol.The cause of the dollar shortage in these countries can be traced back to their balance of payments deteriorating.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 04:33 PM IST with headline  Rupee exhibits signs of stability, here are some factors contributing to it is: 
 The volatility of the US dollar on the one hand and the compulsion to hold dollar reserves on the other, have hurt them. After several decades of continuous decline, the rupee has started to stabilise in the year 2023-24, especially, in its third and fourth quarters. It is worth noting that in the first two quarters of the year 2023-24, the rupee depreciated by only 1.0 percent against the dollar. But in the last two quarters of this financial year, the rupee-dollar exchange rate stabilised at around Rs 83.0 per dollar.We see that the value of the rupee has been continuously falling since the 1980s, since our country moved from the administered exchange rate system to the market determined exchange rate. It is worth mentioning that the rupee-dollar exchange rate moved from Rs 9.46 per US dollar in 1982 to Rs 82.17 per US dollar on March 31, 2023. This means that from 1982 to March 2023, the rupee has depreciated by 868.6 percent, at the rate of 5.41 percent per annum in the last 41 years. This has happened due to the rapidly increasing imports in the country, with exports growing at a much slower pace.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdCurrent Account: No More In DeficitThis year, we witnessed a significant increase in exports of goods and services. The current account deficit has narrowed to just $28 billion in the first three quarters of FY23-24, which is less than 1 percent of India’s GDP. This deficit has turned into a surplus in the first two months of the fourth quarter, riding on shrinking deficit on merchandise trade and widening surplus on services trade. If this trend continues, the current account deficit for the full year could shrink to around $30, which could be much less than 1 percent of GDP, much lower than the current account deficit of FY23 ($66 billion, nearly 2 percent of GDP).Foreign direct investment, though slightly lower in the first three quarters of FY24, compared to corresponding period in 2022-23, is more than offset by an increase in remittances from people of Indian origin. Similarly, despite rising unemployment in the US and Europe, remittances from Indian-origin people continued to rise unabated, and are expected to reach $135 billion in 2023-24 compared to $125 billion in 2022-23.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 12:16 PM IST with headline  Final Composite PMI for March even better than the advance estimate is: 
 The MPC will also have to take the outlook for inflation into account as a result of the strong growth The accompanying chart, which captures India Purchasing Managers Indices (PMIs) for manufacturing, services and composite PMI for the last two quarters, says it all. The final composite PMI for India for March came in at 61.8, even better than the Flash PMI of 61.3, which was based on 80-90 percent of survey responses for the month.(image) The March PMI, , shows growth accelerating. In fact, the survey says private secto
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 11:33 AM IST with headline  Diverging inflation raises prospect of rate cuts by ECB before Fed is: 
 Fed chair Jay Powell signalled in a speech on Wednesday that stubbornly high US inflation may keep the central bank from cutting rates as quickly as previously thought Martin Arnold in Frankfurt, Valentina Romei in London and James Politi in Washingto
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 11:18 AM IST with headline  How you can avoid getting lost in the land of the Titans is: 
 It has seemed mad to invest in anything but the biggest stocks in the past — and it might seem mad now too. In the beginning, fund managers didn’t worry about competition. In those happier times, the first big collective vehicles aimed at retail investors in the UK bought portfolios of 25 or so stocks, mostly with an income bias (the tastes of British investors have not changed), and typical managers did nothing but maintain the portfolio in “an administrative capacity,” says Nigel Morecraft in Towering Investors: The Origins of Asset Management from 1700 to 1960. They bought and they waited — mostly without much reference to what anyone else did. These professionals knew nothing of benchmarks. Their aim was to do better than inflation, cash or government bonds. Not so for the modern version, who is no longer allowed to think in absolutes or for the long haul. Instead, he must think only in terms of performance relative to one of the many indices to which his performance is benchmarked — over no more than five years.That’s a terrible shame. That’s partly because relative performance is not what the average punter cares about: Our first hope is always that we not lose money, not that we lose less than a spreadsheet. It also puts the focus in the wrong place. If your main aim is not to do worse than an index (there are no bonuses in that!), something that tempts you to replicate much of the index in your portfolio, you will also find it hard to do better than that index. And sometimes you will find it harder than other times.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdNow is one of those times, thanks in large part to the extraordinary dominance of megacap stocks in global markets, in the US in particular. Over the past 12 months the Dow Jones Global Titans index (the biggest 50 companies in the world) is up about 35 percent. The MSCI World Index (which is market-cap weighted and so biased toward the Titans) is up 21 percent. The equal-weighted version of the world index is up about 14 percent.The biggest companies have been the only real out-performers and hence the thing to beat. Almost no one has managed it. Look over the last decade, says fund manager GMO and 90 percent of large-cap blend managers have underperformed the S&P 500 Index. Horrible. Look to the actively managed funds in the UK (of all types) says Alex Paget at fund-management firm Downing: 2.5 percent of them have outperformed the Titans in the last 12 months. The few that have made the grade have almost all had a US, growth and technology bias and have been overweight the biggest stocks out there.The MSCI World index comprises a weighting of 3.4 percent Nvidia Corp., for example. The average outperforming fund has been 5.33 percent Nvidia, according to research from Downing. The only way to outperform has been to take a massive bet on megacap exceptionalism and to hold the giants in higher weightings than they already hold in historically concentrated indices.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 02:12 PM IST with headline  Modi must create more factory jobs for India to grow is: 
 Job growth hasn’t even come close to keeping up with population growth during his decade in office. (Representational image) India’s election campaign has officially begun. Few expect Prime Minister Narendra Modi to be unseated by the time it concludes. Yet, objectively, he should be in a lot more trouble electorally than he is.India’s working-age population swells by perhaps eight million a month. Modi’s biggest promise to India’s young and restless voters when he first ran for nationwide office, 10 years ago, was to vastly expand employment opportunities.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdInstead, job growth hasn’t even come close to keeping up with population growth during his decade in office. The most respected independent survey of India’s workforce concluded last year that youth unemployment topped 45 percent.The problem goes beyond India, of course. A report released by the World Bank last week worried that South Asia only created about 10 million a jobs a year over recent decades, even as the number of potential workers was growing by 19 million a year. The proportion of the working-age population in the region who are employed has declined since 2000 — the only slice of the developing world where that happened.Still, India’s problems are particularly acute. Last week, a major new study from the International Labor Organization pointed out that the standard structural transition seen in most developing economies, in which agriculture slowly loses workers to more productive sectors such as manufacturing and services, “reversed after 2019, with a substantial rise in agricultural employment.” The report added, dryly, that this trend was “rather unique” for lower-middle-income countries.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 09:48 AM IST with headline  The hunt for critical minerals — A daunting drill is: 
 Representative image HighlightsThe auction of 13 of the 20 critical minerals blocks scrappedThere was no bidder for two lithium blocks in J&KFor 11 blocks, there were less than three biddersThere seems to be lack of clarity on data on the reservesGlobal collaborations, along with due diligence of local mines, neededOnly a pragmatic critical mineral policy can ensure India’s smooth transition to a low-carbon econom
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 08:48 AM IST with headline  Share of informal employment is rising, it's a worrying trend is: 
 - The government’s Periodic Labour Force Surveys (PLFS) show a rise in the share of informal employment over the last few years. The PLF surveys define informal employment thus: “According to the 15th ICLS conceptual framework, unincorporated enterprises owned by households, (i.e., proprietary and partnership enterprises including the informal producers’ cooperatives) are largely considered as informal sector enterprises. In PLFS, proprietary and partnership enterprises are considered as informal sector enterprises.” The chart shows the share of workers i
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 08:29 AM IST with headline  South Asia has a 'Jobless Development' problem, says World Bank is: 
 Working-age population shares are expected to peak in the early 2030s in Bangladesh, Bhutan, and India HighlightsWorld Bank report says South Asia’s growth is joblessBetween 2000 and 2023, employment in the region grew by 1.7 percent a year and the working-age population expanded by 1.9 percent a yearNot only is the employment ratio low in South Asia compared to other developing economies, but it has also declined during 2000-23 for IndiaSouth Asia’s employment ratio is low because of two main reasons---low employment ratios for women and employment weakness in the non-agriculture sectorsIndia’s femal
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 09:56 AM IST with headline  India aims to expand seafood exports to $12 billion in two years is: 
 India aims to expand seafood exports to $12 billion in two years India is aiming to expand its seafood exports to around $12 billion in the next two years from $8 billion currently, mainly by focusing on high-end markets including the United States and Europe, two government officials said on Wednesday.India has emerged as the biggest supplier of seafood, particularly frozen shrimps, to the United States, with exports doubling over eight years to $2.6 billion in 2022/23, one of the officials at the Commerce Ministry told a small group of reporters.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTotal frozen shrimp exports topped $5.6 billion in 2022/23, according to commerce ministry estimates."The government intends to focus on value addition and supply to high-end markets while creating awareness about good labour and environment practices among exporters," the officials said.Shrimp farming has emerged as a big opportunity for nearly 200,000 workers, mainly women in the Southern states of Andhra Pradesh, the second official said, noting, however, that global demand could remain weak this fiscal year.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 02:21 AM IST with headline  ECB should put rate cuts on this month’s agenda is: 
 The ECB’s mandate to keep inflation at or near 2 percent, but it also is responsible for maintaining financial stability. Inflation in the euro zone may not be decelerating as rapidly as it did last year, but that shouldn’t deter the European Central Bank from following the Swiss National Bank’s lead in cutting rates. With Tuesday’s numbers showing German consumer prices increased by just 2.3 percent last month and Wednesday’s figures for the bloc showing a bigger-than-expected slowdown to 2.4 percent from February’s 2.6 percent pace, the evidence is compelling that inflation is beaten; unfortunately, so is the economy.That’s why policymakers who’ve made it plain they’re minded to cut borrowing costs in June should be emboldened to strike earlier, by introducing their first 25 basis-point reduction in official interest rates at next week’s Thursday meeting. There’s a particularly long gap of 39 business days between April 11 and the June 6 meeting; staying on hold next week could mean an agonizing wait as worsening economic data keep trundling in.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMarch’s core inflation measure declined to 2.9 percent from 3.1 percent in February. Services inflation in the euro zone, as is the case elsewhere, is proving sticky; it was slower to rise, so unsurprisingly it’s also last to fall back and came in at 4 percent for last month.Bank of France President Francois Villeroy de Galhau, often the bellwether for ECB policy changes, has been the most vocal policymaker about potentially cutting as soon as next Thursday. In a speech last week, he stressed that the potential for a further slowdown in growth means that “the time has come to take out an insurance against this second risk by beginning rate cuts.”Among the biggest euro zone economies, it’s clear that after some stickiness in January and February the downward trend in inflation is resuming. German state inflation was lower across the board. French inflation slowed to 2.4 percent in March from 3.2 percent in the prior month. Italian CPI rose to 1.3 percent from 0.8 percent, but this gain was less than expected and remains significantly below the ECB’s overall target. Spain is an outlier, with March CPI ticking up to 3.2 percent from 2.9 percent, but this is partly down to a reversal of energy-tax cuts.
 
The news published on the date April 03, 2024 02:59 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | A death knell for India’s forex derivative market is: 
 Market makers, speculators, and arbitrageurs typically contribute the majority of trading volumes in exchanges. Dear Readers,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn a departure from the foundational principles of exchange operations, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has issued a directive permitting exchanges to offer forex derivative contracts involving the rupee solely for contracted exposure or hedging purposes. This move is anticipated to effectively halt trading in the forex derivative market, with reports suggesting a projected reduction in trading volume by over 80 percent.Within any exchange ecosystem, various participants exist, including market makers, speculators, hedgers, arbitrageurs, and delivery-based buyers. Market makers, speculators, and arbitrageurs typically contribute the majority of trading volumes in exchanges.According to a publication by the National Stock Exchange (NSE), India's primary exchange for currency derivatives, corporate entities accounted for a mere 3.9 percent of currency derivatives turnover based on notional turnover in February while foreign investors contributed 6.2 percent. Proprietary traders and individual investors dominated the market, responsible for 80 percent of the turnover.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 02:22 AM IST with headline  Govt waives duty on export of 1,000 tonnes of kalanamak rice is: 
 Govt waives duty on export of 1,000 tonnes of kalanamak rice The government has removed duty on the Kalanamak variety of rice for exports of up to 1,000 tonnes through six specified customs stations.The duty on overseas shipments of Kalanamak rice was 20 per cent.Story continues below AdvertisementAccording to a notification by the Finance Ministry, the duty waiver on the export of up to 1,000 tonnes of this variety of rice will come into effect from Wednesday.The Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) on Tuesday had allowed exports of up to 1,000 tonnes of Kalanamak rice through specified customs stations.Kalanamak is a variety of non-basmati rice, exports of which were earlier prohibited.Exports of this variety of rice are allowed through six customs stations - Varanasi Air Cargo; JNCH (Jawaharlal Nehru Customs House), Maharashtra; CH (customs house) Kandla, Gujarat; LCS (land customs station) Nepalgunj Road; LCS Sonauli; and LCS Barhni
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 02:24 AM IST with headline  India's 'Goldilocks' economy to prompt RBI to keep rates on hold is: 
 India's 'Goldilocks' economy to prompt RBI to keep rates on hold Strong economic growth and moderating inflation means India's central bank will have room to keep interest rates on hold at its review this week and likely until July, economists say.The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is widely expected to keep rates unchanged on Friday, for the seventh consecutive meeting.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAll 56 economists in the March 15-22 Reuters poll expected the RBI to hold the repo rate at 6.50% while most expect no change at least until July.The RBI has ample room to remain on hold in the near term, Barclays said in a note.The central bank last changed rates in February 2023, when the policy rate was hiked to 6.5%.
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 01:58 AM IST with headline  High crude oil prices a cause for concern, says oil secretary Pankaj Jain is: 
 Rising crude oil prices are a cause for concern for the world's third-largest importer of the commodity, India's oil secretary Pankaj Jain said on April 3.As a consuming nation any increase in prices will cause concern and anxiety, Jain said at an event, referring to the "geopolitical premium" in crude prices, reported news agency Reuters.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIf oil prices continue to stay higher for a month longer, oil marketing companies will take an appropriate decision, the secretary said, when asked if there is a case for increasing retail fuel prices.The minister's comments come in the backdrop of global oil benchmark Brent rising above $89 a barrel for the first time since October, albeit briefly, as oil supplies faced fresh threats from Ukranian attacks on Russian energy facilities and escalating conflict in the Middle East.Brent futures for June delivery were up $1.16, or 1.3%, at $88.58 a barrel by 1218 GMT after touching a peak of $89.08.
 
The news published on the date April 03, 2024 01:00 PM IST with headline  Larry Fink’s faith in the power of markets needs some tempering is: 
 - The father of mortgage-backed securities, unsurprisingly, puts his faith in the power of markets.Larry Fink last week released his perennially anticipated shareholder letter. This year, he focused on his concerns about global retirement safety against the backdrop of rising life expectancies and inadequate savings.But he also offered his thoughts on investment market structure. Fink said the advances in the depth and sophistication of US capital and securities markets over the past 40 years had diminished the influenc
 
The news published on the date April 03, 2024 01:27 PM IST with headline  MPC Meet: RBI to maintain status quo with a hint of caution is: 
 The MPC had maintained status quo on the policy rates and stance in its review that was held in early-February 2024. The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meets later this week for the first time in FY2025, which marks the Reserve Bank of India’s 90th year. In the first policy review for this fiscal, status quo on the rates and stance seems to firmly be on the cards, along with a dose of caution about the inflationary as well as geo-political outlook.To recap, the MPC had maintained status quo on the policy rates and stance in its review that was held in early-February 2024. The decision, however, was not unanimous, with one of the members voting for a rate cut of 25 bps and a change in the policy stance to neutral. Besides, the minutes of the meeting revealed that another member had highlighted that the FY2025 inflation forecast provided room for a cut.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSatisfactory Economic DataThe data releases since the last policy meeting have been quite positive on the domestic growth front, whereas the outlook for inflation remains stubbornly uncertain. Both of these are likely to lead to a recalibration of expectations around the future course of monetary policy action.Firstly, the National Statistical Office (NSO) pegged India’s GDP growth at an unexpectedly high 7.6% in FY2024. The RBI Governor subsequently highlighted that India’s growth is likely to be closer to the 8%-mark in FY2024. This has predicated the broad consensus that the April 2024 policy review will reveal a status quo.
 
The news published on the date April 03, 2024 02:38 PM IST with headline  RBI's stance on underlying exposure for FX derivatives unchanged: Report is: 
 The MPC had maintained status quo on the policy rates and stance in its review that was held in early-February 2024. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has not materially changed its stance on exchange-traded rupee derivatives and neither has it asked brokerages for proof of their clients' underlying forex exposure, two sources aware of the central bank's thinking said.The RBI had said in January that effective April 5, exchanges may offer forex derivative contracts involving the rupee to users "for the purpose of hedging contracted exposure".Story continues below Advertisement"The underlying exposure requirement was always there. There has been no change in that," the first source aware of the central bank's thinking said.Brokerages who are asking clients to provide documents as proof of exposure are doing so of their own volition and have not been instructed to do so by the central bank, the second source said.The sources declined to be named as they are not authorised to speak to the media
 
The news published on the date April 04, 2024 02:09 AM IST with headline  100-day agenda for new Govt: GTRI for easy e-comm rules, national trade network to boost exports is: 
 100-day agenda for new Govt: GTRI for easy e-comm rules, national trade network to boost exports Simplification of e-commerce rules, disbursement of duty refund scheme in cash, and setting up of a national trade network, and publishing a report on the effectiveness of India's trade pacts should be part of the new government's 100-day agenda, GTRI said on Wednesday.The economic think tank Global Trade Research Initiative (GTRI) also suggested the use of blockchain technology for tracing mechanisms for major fruits and vegetable products, allowing special economic zones to sell goods in the domestic market on duty foregone basis, and reducing reliance on China for important imports such as Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients, solar cells, EV batteries, and mobile phone components.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"The first 100 days represent a critical window (for a new government) to set the tone for governance and policy direction," GTRI Founder Ajay Srivastava said.The seven-phase Lok Sabha polls, the world's biggest election exercise, will kick off on April 19 with the counting of votes set to take place on June 4.It further recommended the preparation of an action plan for countering the adverse effects of European climate regulation; building alliances, strengthening partnerships for better results at the WTO (World Trade Organisation); highlighting how several WTO laws are discriminatory and need change; and standardising incentives in manufacturing schemes.
 
The news published on the date April 03, 2024 01:28 PM IST with headline  MPC Meet: Why RBI should step back and reduce interest rates is: 
 The RBI has prohibited financial institutions from charging penal rates on loan defaults or non-compliance with credit terms. By lowering the purchasing power of households, inflation which is nothing but indirect taxation, discourages consumption which remains the backbone of the Indian economy. Furthermore, sluggishness in consumption caps private investment, and in turn GDP growth. That calls for containing inflation on a priority basis.However, to devise effective policy measures to contain inflation, a thorough diagnosis of the problem is imperative.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdInflation IssuesIn its current form, inflation in India is more about deficient supply, especially of perishable horticultural produce and not excess demand. Populist hikes in support and procurement prices of cereals add to the complexity of food inflation and reduces the effectiveness of monetary policy moves.Since the cause of inflation is not excess demand (rather consumer demand remains weak if the latest GDP data is any indication), measures to control demand i.e. tighter monetary policy, will have a limited impact if any on prices, especially on food prices.
 
The news published on the date April 03, 2024 10:00 AM IST with headline  Manufacturing pickup is good news for the world economy is: 
 The gentle upswing in manufacturing should be welcomed rather thanscoured for caveats. The good news is that the global economy appears to have avoided a protracted downdraft, something that looked like a reasonable outcome last year. The US doesn’t have to carry the world on its shoulders, at least not quite to the same degree.Nations that are important nodes in factory supply chains enjoyed an acceleration in March. While the Institute for Supply Management’s gauge came in too hot for some traders’ liking, don’t let that crowd out a very solid performance from production lines and wharves in Asia. If that region can do better than the so-so performance turned in last year, it can make a real contribution to a prolonged global expansion.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThis is worth applause rather than despair. Yes, the first expansion in US manufacturing since 2022 pushed back estimates of how much the Federal Reserve will juice the economy and when that modest easing may commence. Some policymakers had already expressed misgivings about the Fed's projection of several interest-rate cuts in the lead-up to the ISMreport on Monday. The unexpectedly strong American number doesn't have to be a major setback. The central bank's leaders have stressed for a while that there's no rush.The US economy has been performing well, given the rapid monetary tightening that characterized 2021 and 2022. The big power getting a lot of bad press has been China. That makes upbeat data on manufacturing particularly welcome. Hours before the ISM report, figures showed China's closely watched purchasing managers index rose more than forecast in March. Factory activity has expanded for five months. Among other encouraging signs, exports are picking up and the longest streak of deflation since the 1990s was broken in February.None of this means China's struggles are over. The property collapse is still weighing on growth, consumer sentiment is languishing, companies are reining in spending, and further stimulus will likely be required. But compared with the bad vibes and China-is-done narrative, it would be churlish not to acknowledge pleasing news when it comes. There may now be too much negativity toward the world’s second-largest economy.
 
The news published on the date April 03, 2024 08:54 AM IST with headline  India’s oil import strategy faces risks from geopolitics, rising prices is: 
 The OPEC+ production cuts have been amplified by disruptive geopolitics with both the status of the Russia-Ukraine war and the scenario in the Red Sea with the Houthi attacks raising concerns about supply HighlightsOPEC+ cuts announced last year could continue to remain for 2024Crude oil prices could stay elevated or rise further due to Russia-Ukraine war and Houthi attacks in the Red SeaDemand for crude oil in India has risen sharply and is expected to rise furtherIndia’s purchases of Russian oil are nearing its end due to increasing US sanctionsIndia may soon have to turn to Iraq and the Gulf to meet oil needs, exposing itself to costlier import
 
The news published on the date April 03, 2024 09:59 AM IST with headline  World Bank projects Indian economy to grow at 7.5% in 2024 is: 
 World Bank projects Indian economy to grow at 7.5% in 2024 The Indian economy is pEconomy,india,GDP,Growthrojected to grow at 7.5 per cent in 2024, the World Bank has said, revising its earlier projections for the same period by 1.2 per cent.Overall, growth in South Asia is expected to be strong at 6.0 per cent in 2024, driven mainly by robust growth in India and recoveries in Pakistan and Sri Lanka, the World Bank said in its latest South Asia Development Update on Tuesday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAccording to the report, South Asia is expected to remain the fastest-growing region in the world for the next two years, with growth projected to be 6.1% in 2025."In India, which accounts for the bulk of the region's economy, output growth is expected to reach 7.5% in FY23/24 before returning to 6.6% over the medium term, with activity in services and industry expected to remain robust," the bank said in its report.In Bangladesh, output is expected to rise by 5.7% in FY24/25, with high inflation and restrictions on trade and foreign exchange constraining economic activity.
 
The news published on the date April 02, 2024 08:49 PM IST with headline  Dollar lower after US jobs data little changed, jawboning supports yen is: 
 Dollar lower after US jobs data little changed, jawboning supports yen The U.S. dollar was down on Tuesday after earlier hitting its highest in almost five months, following a new report that showed U.S. job openings held steady at higher levels in February.The dollar index rose to 105.1 on Tuesday, its highest level since Nov. 14, adding to sharp gains on Monday after U.S. data unexpectedly showed the first expansion in manufacturing since September 2022.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIt last stood at 104.73, down 0.257% after a report from the Labor Department showed that job openings edged up to 8.756 million on the last day of February, slightly higher than expectations.Monday's U.S. ISM manufacturing survey data featured a sharp rise in a measure of prices in the sector, adding to investors' concerns that inflation will be slow to fall back to 2%, delaying the Federal Reserve's first rate cut."Really the dollar over the last nine months or so has been driven by Fed policy expectations -- when the probability of a cut increases sooner, the dollar tends to weaken, and vice versa," said John Velis, Americas macro strategist at BNY Mellon.
 
The news published on the date April 02, 2024 06:08 PM IST with headline  Gold hits fresh record high with support from momentum-following funds is: 
 Gold hits fresh record high with support from momentum-following funds Gold prices rose to a fresh record high on Tuesday as demand from momentum-following funds offset a strong U.S. dollar and the possibility of higher-for-longer U.S. rates.Spot gold was up 0.5% to $2,262.51 per ounce by 1055 GMT, after hitting an all-time high of $2,266.59. The bullion has been hitting fresh record highs for three sessions in a row.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"An underlying bid from retail and central banks is being joined by momentum-following speculators who have extended their already elevated longs following the break above $2,200," said Ole Hansen at Saxo Bank."In addition, there is no doubt that geopolitical tensions have added an additional layer of support."The bullion rose by 9.3% in March, which was its biggest monthly growth since July 2020, amid persistent safe-haven demand and central bank purchases. China's central bank has been adding gold to its reserves for 16 months in a row.
 
The news published on the date April 02, 2024 05:11 PM IST with headline  How many gig workers are there? Depends on how you ask is: 
 Companies like Uber have enabled the gig economy. (Source: Bloomberg/Getty Images) Our understanding of the US labour market is based to a remarkable extent on a few questions asked each month as part of the Current Population Survey, which is conducted by the Census Bureau in cooperation with the Bureau of Labour Statistics. The most important goes something like this (the wording changes depending who is asked and when): LAST WEEK, did you do ANY work for either pay or profit?If the answer is no, there’s a series of questions to suss out whether the respondent is looking for work or is not working because she’s retired, in school, disabled, or for some other reason. If it’s yes, there are follow-up questions about hours worked, self-employment, multiple jobs and so on. This is how the BLS determines the unemployment rate as well as other key indicators such as the employment-population ratio and the labour force participation rate.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSometimes the Current Population Survey includes additional questions, such as this one:Last week, were you working as an independent contractor, an independent consultant, or a free-lance worker? [That is, someone who obtains customers on their own to provide a product or service.]That’s from the May 2017 Contingent and Alternative Employment Arrangements supplement, the results of which received a lot of attention from me and others. They showed the percentage of US workers who are independent contractors or freelancers to have fallen to 6.9 percent, from 7.4 percent the previous time the questions were asked in 2005. The share in “alternative work arrangements” — contractors/freelancers plus temporary help agency employees and on-call workers — had dropped to 10.1 percent from 10.7 percent.These declines were the opposite of what most had expected, given the much-heralded rise over that same period of the “gig economy” enabled by online platforms such as Uber Inc., Taskrabbit (now owned by Ikea) and Upwork Global Inc. They also seemed to contradict the findings of a survey modeled on the contingent work supplement and conducted by two prominent labour economists in 2015, which found that 15.8 percent of US workers were in alternative work arrangements and that such work had accounted for 94 percent of net job growth since 2005.
 
The news published on the date April 02, 2024 04:20 PM IST with headline  Rupee falls 4 paise to close at 83.43 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee falls 4 paise to close at 83.43 against US dollar The rupee on Tuesday consolidated in a narrow range and settled 4 paise lower at 83.43 against the US dollar, weighed down by a strong dollar and elevated crude oil prices.Forex traders said a weak trend in domestic equities also dented investor sentiments.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange, the local unit opened at 83.37, then touched an intraday high of 83.34 and a low of 83.44 against the greenback. The rupee finally settled at 83.43, a fall of 4 paise over its previous close.On Thursday last week, the rupee depreciated 6 paise to settle at 83.39 against the US dollar.Forex market was closed on Friday and Monday on account of 'Good Friday' and the annual account closing of banks, respectively.
 
The news published on the date April 02, 2024 06:18 PM IST with headline  Brent oil price hits highest this year on fresh supply threats is: 
 Global oil benchmark Brent breaks above $88 on fresh supply threats Global oil benchmark Brent on Tuesday rose above $89 a barrel for the first time since October, albeit briefly, as oil supplies faced fresh threats from Ukranian attacks on Russian energy facilities and escalating conflict in the Middle East.Brent futures for June delivery were up $1.16, or 1.3%, at $88.58 a barrel by 1218 GMT after touching a peak of $89.08.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdU.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures for May rose $1.23, or about 1.5%, to $84.94.A Ukrainian drone struck one of Russia's biggest refineries on Tuesday in an attack that Russia initially said it repelled.A Reuters analysis of images showing the impact of the attack suggest it hit the refinery's primary oil refining unit, which accounts for about half of the plant's total annual production capacity of 340,000 barrels per day (bpd).
 
The news published on the date April 02, 2024 06:24 PM IST with headline  India third-most improved business destination in the world: Report is: 
 India came third on the list of most improved countries as a result of its youthful demographic, which promises strong demand and availability of good labour Greece, Qatar and India have improved the most globally in providing the best environment to businesses in the past one year, according to a report by Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU).India came third on the list of most improved countries as a result of its youthful demographic, which promises strong demand and availability of good labour, the report said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“India is the only single-country market that offers a potential scale comparable to that of China,” the report said.The EIU said it expects strong economic growth between 2024 and 2028 with more foreign direct investments coming into India as companies look for manufacturing destinations other than China.In the business environment rankings (BER), Greece improved the most due to policy reforms by a pro-business government, while Argentina’s free market programs under its new president Javier Milei has propelled its improvement in the list.
 
The news published on the date April 02, 2024 03:41 PM IST with headline  Bracing for the Burn: How heat waves are heating up India's economy is: 
 India Heat Wave: Sectors like power, agriculture, and industry face challenges due to heatwaves, impacting productivity and output. A heatwave is more than just a spike in temperature; it's a condition that becomes perilous for human health when exposed. Quantitatively, it's defined by specific temperature thresholds over a region, often in terms of actual temperature or its departure from normal. In some countries, including India, it's characterized by criteria such as the heat index, based on temperature and humidity, or extreme percentiles of temperatures.According to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), in India, the criteria for declaring a heatwave include a maximum temperature of at least 40°C for plains and 30°C for hilly regions, or a departure from the normal temperature of 4.5°C to 6.4°C, with severe heatwaves declared for departures exceeding 6.4°C. Additionally, warm nights, when minimum temperatures remain high, further compound the issue.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe recent report from the IMD advisory signals concerning temperatures above normal in April to June highlights the pressing issue of heatwaves. Several states, including Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Andhra Pradesh, already experienced temperatures ranging from 40°C to 42.6°C in the past week.IMD's forecast indicates a warm April-June period, with high probabilities of prolonged heatwave episodes, particularly affecting states like Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Odisha, North Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, and Telangana. These forecasts come amid continued warm conditions attributed to factors like El Niño.Economy sizzles
 
The news published on the date April 02, 2024 01:09 PM IST with headline  India’s searing heat wave boosts RBI case to wait on rate cuts is: 
 India’s searing heat wave boosts RBI case to wait on rate cuts A sizzling heat wave in large parts of the country will raise concerns for India’s policymakers already grappling with sticky inflation, potentially pushing back the timing for interest rate cuts, economists said.The nation’s weather office on Monday predicted hotter-than-usual temperatures across the country in the three-month period through June, with a high probability of heat wave episodes lasting as long as 10 to 20 days in certain regions.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“A heat wave could potentially slow the disinflation process and keep prices of vegetables elevated,” Teresa John, an economist at Nirmal Bang Institutional Equities Pvt, said by phone. “Our base case for interest rate cuts was June, but now August or October seems more likely,” she said.The pace of inflation in India has remained above the central bank’s 4% target for the last few months, giving policymakers reason to remain cautious. The Reserve Bank of India has kept its benchmark rate unchanged for six straight policy meetings and is scheduled to hold its next monetary policy review on Apr. 5.
 
The news published on the date April 02, 2024 01:09 PM IST with headline  AI revolution will be boon for natural gas, say fossil fuel bosses is: 
 Fuel Price Myles McCormick in Houston and Jamie Smyth and Amanda Chu in New YorkA surge in demand for electricity to feed data centres and to power an artificial intelligence revolution will usher in a golden era for natural gas, producers say.AI’s soaring energy needs will rise well beyond what renewable energy and batteries can deliver, executives argue, making more planet-warming fossil fuel supplies crucial even as governments vow to slash their use.“It will not be done without gas,
 
The news published on the date April 03, 2024 12:59 AM IST with headline  India added 21 GW solar module, 3 GW cell manufacturing capacity in 2023: Mercom is: 
 India added 21 GW solar module, 3 GW cell manufacturing capacity in 2023: Mercom India installed 20.8 GW of solar modules and 3.2 GW of cell manufacturing capacity in 2023, according to Mercom Capital.The country's cumulative solar module manufacturing capacity reached 64.5 GW, and solar cell manufacturing capacity 5.8 GW as of December 2023, the US-based research firm said in its latest report, State of Solar PV Manufacturing.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"About 60 per cent of the installed module manufacturing capacity was equipped to manufacture solar modules in M10 and G12 wafer sizes," the report said.Monocrystalline modules accounted for 67.5 per cent of the country's module production capacity, followed by polycrystalline, tunnel oxide passivated contact (TOPCon), and thin film modules, Mercom said.Module manufacturing capacity is projected to surpass 150 GW, and cell capacity is expected to reach over 75 GW by 2026, it said.
 
The news published on the date April 02, 2024 04:10 PM IST with headline  RBI likely to set cut-off yield on 10-year state bonds in 7.42%-7.44% band: Poll is: 
 RBI likely to set cut-off yield on 10-year state bonds in 7.42%-7.44% band: Poll Indian states will aim to raise an aggregate of 161 billion rupees ($1.93 billion) on Tuesday through a sale of bonds maturing in six years to 20 years.The Reserve Bank of India will likely set cutoff yields for the 10-year bonds in the 7.42%-7.44% band, according to a Reuters poll of 11 traders.Story continues below AdvertisementNote Quantum (in bln Median Min Maxrupees)6-year 5 7.39% 7.37% 7.41%8-10 year 26 7.42%-7.44% 7.40% 7.46%12-20 year 130 7.40%-7.43% 7.38% 7.46
 
The news published on the date April 03, 2024 01:20 AM IST with headline  Institutional investments in real estate down 40% to $995 million in January-March: Report is: 
 Tiger Global VC fund closes 63% below target with $2.2 billion Institutional investments in real estate fell 40 per cent annually in January-March to USD 995.1 million because of a lower inflow of funds in office, residential, and warehousing assets, according to Colliers India.The institutional investments stood at USD 1,658.3 million in the year-ago period.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOut of the total institutional investments, real estate consultant Colliers India highlighted that foreign funds contributed 55 per cent while domestic investors 45 per cent.As per the data, the institutional investments in the office fell 38 per cent to USD 563 million in January-March this year from USD 907.6 million in the corresponding period of the previous year.The residential segment witnessed a 72 per cent fall in investments to 102.6 million from 361.1 million.
 
The news published on the date April 02, 2024 09:31 AM IST with headline  Climate Change: India’s path towards sustainability is: 
 India's climate change policies are anchored in international frameworks like the Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Agreement Climate change is one of the defining challenges of our era, with far-reaching implications for the environment, society, and economy. At its core, climate change refers to the long-term alteration of Earth's climate patterns, including shifts in temperature, precipitation, and weather extremes. While climate variations have occurred throughout Earth's history, the current pace and scale of change are unprecedented, largely attributed to human activities, particularly the burning of fossil fuels and deforestation.The consequences of climate change ar
 
The news published on the date April 02, 2024 10:57 AM IST with headline  US economy strengthens, sluggish China welcomes FDI as investments pour in is: 
 China has also welcomed FDI. This is a signal to the US companies who have invested a great deal in China in the past. US President Joe Biden delivered his State of the Union address to the US Congress on 7th March. On the other side of the Pacific in China, the 21st National People's Congress held its plenum.Biden made a pitch for higher taxes and more social sector expenditure. These reflect traditional Democratic Party positions. But there was a strong partisan slant in an election year, which will ensure that American polity will remain polarized. On China, the President was cautious. He mentioned ‘We want competition with China, but not conflict.’ While the ‘work paper’ presented in the Chinese Communist Party National Congress emphasized Taiwan and hiked up defense expenditure.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBiden Cautious on ChinaPresident Biden defined his position in contrast to Trump’s positions on a range of foreign and domestic policy issues. He mentioned ‘Putin of Russia is on the march, invading Ukraine and sowing chaos throughout Europe and beyond.’ He underlined his administration’s commitment to Ukraine and NATO. He contrasted this with his predecessor’s position, ‘a former Republican President’, who told Putin, ‘Do whatever the hell you want.’ On China, he struck a more cautious note. He said ‘our GDP is up’, and ‘our trade deficit with China is down to the lowest point in over a decade.’ He said that America ‘is standing up for peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait.’ He added that he has ensured ‘that the most advanced American technologies can’t be used in China’s weapons.’President Biden reiterated traditional Democrat positions on abortion, gun control, and taxes, contrasting them with the Republican positions. He said that a $2 Trillion tax cut by the previous administration ‘overwhelmingly benefits the very wealthy and the biggest corporations and exploded the federal deficit.’ On his part, he suggested that the corporate minimum tax be raised from 15 percent to 21 percent. Whatever the merits of the positions of the two parties, this suggests that the American polity will remain deeply divided. The division already extends to Congress, where the Democrats control the Senate, while the Republicans control the House. The House decides the budget. Thus, President Biden will have little control over the budget process necessary to support his agenda. He will have to depend upon the monetary policy, which is controlled by the Federal Reserve and the Treasury. The administration will have to depend upon debt, rather than taxes, to finance social spending and economic programs.
 
The news published on the date April 02, 2024 08:48 AM IST with headline  Depleting water levels at reservoirs signal difficult times for agri-input providers is: 
 Representative image Fiscal year 2025 is beginning on an uncertain note for agriculture input providers. Water levels at 150 reservoirs tracked by the Central Water Commission have dropped to the lowest levels in five years. With monsoon rains falling short in 2023, agriculture activity in the upcoming crop season can be hit unless the state governments steps-up relief measures.(image) Water levelsThe scenario is particularly applicable to the South and Western regions, large markets fo
 
The news published on the date April 02, 2024 12:35 PM IST with headline  It’s all about growth in April policy for an inflation-obsessed RBI is: 
 Will GDP growth move the needle for RBI? Governor Shaktikanta Das has indicated that gross domestic product (GDP) growth HighlightsRBI has reiterated the importance of achieving its 4 percent inflation targetAt February policy, members differed on growth, inflation assessmentJR Varma pointed out that GDP growth at potential would mean there is no overheating in FY24GDP growth is expected to be near 8 percent for FY24 and 7 percent for FY25Food has high weighted in CPI inflation, but this could change as CPI is reworked post household survey outcome
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 09:05 PM IST with headline  India's trade dependence on EU, China sees spike: UNCTAD report is: 
 The increase in dependence comes at a time when the country is trying to reduce its imports from China and other countries by putting more focus on manufacturing goods locally India’s dependence for trade on the European Union (EU) and China is rising as global trade has seen a restructuring along the geopolitical lines in the past two years, according to a report by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD).According to the UNCTAD estimates, based on national statistics, India’s reliance on the EU and China rose by 1.2 percent annually in 2023, while it declined in the case of Saudi Arabia by 0.6 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe increase in dependence comes at a time when the country is trying to reduce its imports from China and other countries by emphasising manufacturing goods locally, backed by schemes, such as production-linked schemes (PLI) and Quality Control Orders (QCOs).According to the report, this supply chain shift has happened following the Covid-19 pandemic and the Ukraine-Russia war, which led to a record increase in prices of food and fuels.“During the last two years, the geographical proximity of international trade has remained relatively constant, showing minimal nearshoring or far-shoring trends. However, since the latter part of 2022, there has been a noticeable rise in the political proximity of trade.
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 06:15 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | What the new fiscal year brings, some old, some new is: 
 Investors will tune in to management commentary, in their media and investor calls, to assess how the year is likely to pan out. Dear Reader,In a few weeks from now, India’s companies will total what they did in a year, financially speaking, and report it to their shareholders. Fourth quarter results too will be released, but they are more of a balancing figure. While we will be on top of that, bringing you results, analysis and investment views, that’s after all a rear view of how FY24 went.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMuch of it is already reflected partly in the wealth created for stock market investors in the past year, with the S&P BSE Sensex up by nearly 25 percent over a year ago and the Nifty up by 29 percent. In today’s edition, our columnist Ananya Roy takes a close look at what led to the rally in shares of different shapes and sizes, the relay rally run by FIIs and DIIs that kept investors in a good mood in FY24, and then a forecast on what’s likely in FY25. She has a cautious message for investors that they should pay close attention to. Don’t miss it.These increases, of course, also reflect anticipation of what lies ahead in FY25. Investors will tune in to management commentary, in their media and investor calls, to assess how the year is likely to pan out. While this will be true for all stocks, the interest will be higher in mid and small caps, where doubts have arisen on whether froth has built up and to what extent in these stocks.Two known events will stand out for their impact in FY25. One is the general elections where the outcome is more or less known that the BJP will return to power, but it will still lead to a slowdown in activity in the first half, as government business slows down. This is important as it will affect sectors that are dependent on the investment cycle, which has been humming on the back of government spending.
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 08:01 PM IST with headline  The Dollar is more armoured division than currency is: 
 The biggest risk to the dollar may be the US itself. There’s just no getting past the supremacy of the dollar, much as skeptics of American influence wish for it or lonely yen bulls cry for relief. The greenback has been frequently tipped to retreat, only for it to blow away everything in front of it. This resilience might not last, but as long as it does, it reminds a world once in thrall to China’s ascent that the US is the essential economic force. Just ask all the central bankers quizzed as much, if not more, about the Federal Reserve’s intentions as their own. Sovereignty can be relative.Events billed as heralding a pullback have barely made a dent: Japan’s decision to end eight years of negative interest rates fizzled in markets; the country’s finance minister has resorted to jawboning the yen stronger, and traders are handicapping the prospects of intervention by Tokyo. Even projections of rate cuts by the Fed aren’t doing it: Reductions are likely to be synchronous among the biggest authorities, preventing any major currency from outshining the dollar. This year was meant to be one in which the dollar fell, but a key index of its support is off to a strong start.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThat’s the short term. Markets fluctuate and currencies, like stock and bond markets, have good years and times when things don’t turn out so stellar. But the buoyancy of the past quarter — and last couple of years — is built on something more than rate differences. The longer story of dollar firepower is one of a currency beating back challenge after challenge every few years. In the late 1990s, the coming euro was supposed to rival the dollar. A couple of years later, the current-account deficit became the totem of all that was wrong. (When I ran Bloomberg’s foreign-exchange news in the early 2000s, the most commonly-cited reason for any tough trading day for the dollar was the trade shortfall. A close second was the belief that the US had quietly dropped the strong-dollar policy developed during the Clinton administration.)Then came the subprime collapse and quantitative easing, followed by the would-be rise of the Chinese yuan. The worry du jour: the aggressive use of sanctions, which critics said would lead to a global de-dollarization. It’s as though the rest of the world scouts for a savior every few years. Assertions that the dollar will be undone are overblown, according to a recent paper by Steven B. Kamin, a former head of the Fed’s international finance division, and Mark Sobel, who served as deputy assistant secretary of the Treasury.
 
The news published on the date April 05, 2024 01:08 PM IST with headline  Direct Benefit Transfers: A revolution under the radar is: 
 HDFC Bank: The bank has sold 27,81,897 shares (representing 3.03 percent of the equity capital) of Indraprastha Medical Corporation between February 29 and April 4, 2024, through the secondary market route. After the stake sale, the bank holds 2.45 percent of Indraprastha. The average selling price was Rs 199.38 per share, and the total stake sale worth was Rs 55.46 crore. By Sriram Balasubramanian In the run up to the 10th anniversary of the Narendra Modi government, there have been numerous comparisons between the performance of the government viz-a-viz previous regimes. The release of the NSSO survey results for 2022-23 and its projected elimination in extreme poverty has further enriched the discussion. While there have been numerous comparisons especially on macro-economic parameters and the poverty indicators, one thing that stands out is the efficiency of welfare schemes which has been significantly better in recent times. At the core of this increase in efficiency is the development of the Direct Benefit transfer system and its scalability in recent times.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe DBT has been well talked about by many researchers over the years. The IMF’s book on inclusive growth consists of a chapter on inclusive growth in India and highlights the DBT system in detail. In very simple terms, it optimizes the JAM trinity—Jan Dhan, Aadhaar and Mobile---to ensure that cash transfers are transferred directly to the bank account of beneficiaries. For the year FY 2023-24, approximately Rs 5,45,599 crore has been transferred to almost 668 crore transactions through 315 schemes and 54 ministries. Cumulative DBT transfers for all the years since its inception is a whopping Rs 35,30,011 crore. One wonders what has made the DBT such an important part of the developmental narrative and why its central perhaps to future progress as well. There are three main reasons.First, besides the technology, the recent scalability of DBT across many states in India has ensured that corruption through middlemen (on welfare schemes) is significantly reduced. Leakages of the system for direct cash transfers has been reduced significantly since the money reaches the beneficiaries directly into their bank accounts. This has generated significant monetary savings which we define in economics called the ‘opportunity cost’---what would have been the cost had the DBT not been there? The answer to this question is staggering. According to the chart shown below, the cumulative savings in the DBT schemes from has been a staggering Rs 3,48,564.66 (approx. Rs 3.5 trillion) crores from the beginning of the DBT around FY2015 to March 2023. Source: DBT website
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 01:49 PM IST with headline  Capex intensity of corporates likely to increase after Lok Sabha polls: India Ratings is: 
 Depending on the current trends, various schemes in place and which government comes to power, the rating agency believes the performance of corporates to be robust in 2024-25 The companies are likely to speed up their capex plans after the Lok Sabha results come in as they will analyse their growth drivers, assuming the commodity prices will remain controlled, India Ratings said on Monday.“Various companies are evaluating their capex requirement going forward. We believe that capex intensity is likely to increase after elections, depending on what the companies see as their growth drivers. We expect there may be a pickup in capex depending on the Lok Sabha election outcome and the level of demand. Expect investment to pick up in FY25,” Arvind Rao, Senior Director, India Ratings & Research said at a press conference.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdDepending on the current trends, various schemes in place and which government comes to power, the rating agency believes the performance of corporates to be robust in 2024-25.“In the current year we expect an increase in profitability, if commodity prices remain controlled. Though the upgrade proportion is likely to reduce and the downgrade to upgrade ratio will increase further. The rating actions will see moderation in FY25,” he added.Globally, with the likelihood of a hard landing in the US having receded, abating concerns on inflation as well as risks to global growth being broadly balanced, the outlook on global growth for 2024 has been raised to 2.4 percent from 2.1 percent by Fitch Ratings. On the domestic front, Ind-Ra estimates FY25 GDP growth rate to be at a healthy 6.5 percent.
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 08:01 PM IST with headline  Domestic consumption demand, Govt capex lent support to India Inc's credit profile: ICRA is: 
 Domestic consumption demand, Govt capex lent support to India Inc's credit profile: ICRA Rating agency ICRA on Monday said domestic consumption demand, government's infrastructure spending and healthy balance sheets lent support to India Inc's credit profile in the 2023-24 fiscal, even though rise in borrowing cost, sluggish exports and certain global events posed challenges.In the just-concluded fiscal year, ICRA upgraded two entities for every entity downgraded, in continuation of the upgrade momentum that had been set in motion in FY22.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAviation, hospitality, auto and auto components, and banks were the few sectors in 2023-24 where the rating upgrades were induced mostly by industry tailwinds.The domestic rating agency said India Inc bore direct and the indirect effects of multiple challenges in FY24, including inflation, rise in borrowing costs, sub-par monsoon, supply-effects of the continued war between Russia and Ukraine, start of another conflict between Israel and Palestine, the Red Sea crisis, and sluggish exports.Yet, these did not feel heavier as domestic consumption demand across several sectors, government spending on public infrastructure, and healthy balance sheets lent support to the credit profiles of entities, ICRA said.
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 01:53 PM IST with headline  India's power consumption rises 1.4% to 129.89 billion units in March is: 
 India's power consumption rises 1.4% to 129.89 billion units in March India's power consumption growth remained subdued at 1.4 per cent to 129.89 billion units (BU) in March as compared to the year-ago period mainly due to pleasant weather, according to government data.In March 2023, power consumption stood at 128.12 BU, lower than 128.47 BU recorded in the same month a year earlier, the data showed.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe highest supply in a day (peak power demand) rose to 221.70 GW in March 2024 as opposed to 208.92 GW in March 2023 and 199.43 GW in March 2022.Experts said power consumption as well as demand growth remained subdued in March as the weather remained pleasant across the country and people did not feel the need for heating or cooling appliances, especially in north India.The power ministry has estimated around 260 GW of peak demand during summer.
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 08:00 PM IST with headline  Credit quality outlook of India Inc positive in first half of FY25: Crisil Ratings is: 
 Share sale in Coal India fetched Rs 4,186 crore, while in NHPC and NLC India it garnered Rs 2,488 crore and Rs 2,129 crore, respectively Crisil Ratings on Monday said the credit quality outlook for Indian corporates remains positive for the April-September period of the 2024-25 fiscal year with upgrades continuing to outpace downgrades.In the last fiscal year, Crisil gave 409 rating upgrades and 228 downgrades. Some export-linked sectors, such as textile and seafood, saw a higher downgrade rate due to subdued global demand or high-cost inventory that impacted profitability.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"India Inc's credit quality outlook is positive for the first half of fiscal 2025 with upgrades expected to outnumber downgrades. Multiplier effect of government capex will continue to drive infrastructure and linked sectors. Healthy balance sheets will continue to support the credit quality outlook, with capex funding seen prudent," Crisil Rating said.It said the outstanding bank credit is expected to cross Rs 200 lakh crore by March 2025, from Rs 172 lakh crore a year ago, even though there would be moderation in the rate of credit growth.The Indian economy with a GDP growth of 6.8 per cent is expected to remain the fastest-growing large economy in the current fiscal. The growth will, however, moderate from 7.6 per cent expected in 2023-24 as high interest rates and lower fiscal impulse to growth will temper demand, according to Crisil.
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 01:29 PM IST with headline  India hydropower output records steepest fall in nearly four decades is: 
 India hydropower output records steepest fall in nearly four decades India's hydroelectricity output fell at the steepest pace in at least 38 years during the year ended March 31, a Reuters analysis of government data showed, as erratic rainfall forced further dependence on coal-fired power amid higher demand.The 16.3% drop in generation from the country's biggest clean energy source coincided with the share of renewables in power generation sliding for the first time since Prime Minister Narendra Modi made commitments to boost solar and wind capacity at the United Nations climate talks at Paris in 2015.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRenewables accounted for 11.7% of India's power output in the year that ended in March, down from 11.8% a year earlier, a Reuters analysis of daily load despatch data from the federal grid regulator Grid-India showed.India is the world's third-largest greenhouse gas emitter, and the government often points to lower per-capita emissions compared to developed nations to defend rising coal use.A five-year low in reservoir levels means hydro output will likely remain low during the hottest months of April-June, experts say, potentially boosting dependence on coal during a period of high demand before the monsoon starts in June.
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 12:20 PM IST with headline  April Fool stories is: 
 It’s April 1, folks. Happy reading! April 1, New York: In a stunning development, leaders of the world’s richest economies today agreed to fund a programme that will ensure food, shelter, health and education for every person in the world within a year. Sources say that trillions of dollars, much of which was obtained by the plunder of colonies, will be returned to the developing world under the programme. Funds will also be made available to combat climate change, especially to the island nations facing extinction.Sources say some reporters at the press conference called to announce the resolution had to be carried out on stretchers.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdApril 1, Tel Aviv: Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu resigned today, taking responsibility for his inability to stop the Hamas attack on October 7, 2023 and the subsequent carnage in Gaza. “I humbly agree to abide by the UN Security Council resolution on a cease fire’’, he added. Unconfirmed reports say that several of Netanyahu’s cabinet members had heart attacks.April 1, New Delhi: A politician who had recently switched political parties pooh-poohed all talk of a change of heart. ‘’All that talk is rubbish”, he said, calling on people to support him because he was spending millions on his election and promising to shower them with freebies. ‘’Nobody gives a damn about ideals’’, he said, pointing out that, ‘’My only focus is to get elected,’’ to wild cheers from his supporters.April 1, New York: World leaders today decided to cancel trillions of dollars of debt owed by the least developed countries. ‘’We emit a lot of hot air about the problems these countries face,’’ said Joe Biden, adding, ‘’but today, we have finally decided to walk the talk.’’
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 10:16 AM IST with headline  For India, Saudi Arabia is both an opportunity and a quandary is: 
 - HighlightsOil is not as critical to the Saudi Arabian’s economy, with non-oil revenues contributing to nearly half of the Kingdom’s GDPSaudi Arabia’s changes could impact many a geopolitical analysis, both across the Middle East and a wider AsiaThough Western companies are still collectively the largest investors, on a country-basis it’s still China that is making some of the fastest inroads in Saudi ArabiaYet, the sectors where Saudi Arabia is looking at growth are well within the gras
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 09:39 AM IST with headline  India gold prices soar to record high, dampening demand, dealers say is: 
 India gold prices soar to record high, dampening demand, dealers say Indian gold futures hit an all-time high on Monday, tracking gains in overseas markets and squeezing demand in the world's second-biggest consumer of the precious metal, dealers said.Domestic gold futures rose to 69,487 Indian rupees ($834.07) per 10 grams, up nearly 10% so far in 2024.Story continues below AdvertisementIndia's gold imports are set to plunge by more than 90% in March from the previous month to hit their lowest since the COVID pandemic, a government official and two bank dealers told Reuters last week
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 10:02 AM IST with headline  Government raises $1.98 billion by selling stakes in companies in 2023/24 is: 
 Government raises $1.98 billion by selling stakes in companies in 2023/24 The Indian government has raised 165 billion rupees ($1.98 billion) in 2023/24 by selling its stakes in about 10 state-run companies, official data showed, about 9% lower than its internal target of 180 billion rupees.Prime Minister Narendra Modi's ambition of privatising state-run firms has taken a back seat due to general elections that start on April 19.Story continues below AdvertisementModi's government has met its privatisation and minority stake sale target only twice in the last decade, even though his government's track record is better than any previous administration.His government has not set a target for the current financial year, which starts on April 1, in a break from usual practice.However, lower stake sale receipts have been partly made up by higher dividends that the government received from state-run companies.In 2023/24, the government received about 630 billion rupees as dividends, above its target of 500 billion rupees, government data showed
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 09:40 AM IST with headline  No changes in new tax regime from April 1: Finance Ministry is: 
 The new tax regime is applicable for persons other than companies and firms, as a default regime from the assessment year 2024-25. No changes are being made to the new tax regime from the financial year 2024-25, which begins April 1, the finance ministry has said, describing as misleading some social media posts that said otherwise.Though the new tax regime is the default one, taxpayers can opt out of it till the filing of returns for assessment year 2024-25, the ministry said late in the night on March 31.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“The taxpayers can choose the tax regime that they think is beneficial to them. The option for opting out from the new tax regime is available till filing of return for the AY 2024-25.“Eligible persons without any business income will have the option to choose the regime for each financial year. So, they can choose a new tax regime in one financial year and old tax regime in another year and vice versa. There is no new change which is coming in from April 1, 2024,” the statement said.ALSO READ: Tax-saving: Exemptions you can claim under the new and old tax regimes
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 09:10 AM IST with headline  Goldiam International: Play on the growing lab grown diamond jewellery demand is: 
 Robust play on growing Lab grown diamond Highlights - Quarterly performance largely backed by improved realisations - Medium-term triggers China plus and protectionist measures for tyre industry - Valuations not inexpensive; but improved medium-term outlook HighlightsDemand recovers; expect near double-digit growth in FY25Increasing acceptance for LGD globallyTo foray into LGD retailing in IndiaStrong balance shee
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 09:39 AM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Market Outlook | High probability of markets touching new highs during the week is: 
 The short-term indicators hint at an upmove. Dear Reader,Despite comprising only three trading days, the final week of fiscal year FY24 concluded with a robust market performance, as benchmark indices rose by nearly one percent. Particularly noteworthy were the last two days of the March expiry, during which both the Nifty and Sensex closed in on their previous highs. This surge was fuelled by end-of-year fund buying observed across various sectors, leading to a broad-based rally.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn the March series, the Nifty experienced a gain of 1.6 percent, contributing to its solid 28.6 percent gain for FY24. Additionally, in FY24, the Mid, Small, and Large-cap indices surged by 63 percent, 60 percent, and 32 percent, respectively.On the global front, the week concluded with mixed market performances. European markets continued to rally and key US market indices showed divergent trends. However, the majority of Asian markets posted negative returns.Bounce from oversold zone
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 08:14 AM IST with headline  Chart of the Day: Take the year-on-year core sector growth figures with a large dose of salt is: 
 - The Core industries growth number for February came in at 6.72 percent year-on-year, up from 4.09 percent year-on-year in January. Is that yet another indication of an acceleration in economic growth?Not really. Year-on-year growth was a stunning 13.37 percent in August 2023, followed by a good 9.45 percent in September, which accelerated to a formidable 12.68 percent in October, fell to a still-respectable 7.89 percent in November, slid thereafter to 4.89 percent and 4.09 percent in Decembe
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 08:15 AM IST with headline  The intriguing maths behind India's improved current account position is: 
 - The current account deficit for Oct-Dec 2023 has come in at a very comfortable 1.16 percent of GDP, much better than the 2.02 percent of GDP current account deficit in Oct-Dec 2022.But how exactly was this improvement achieved?(image) Chart 1 has the details, taking net inflows as a percentage of GDP. As the chart shows, the most important improvement has been in the merchandise trade balance, which has improved from -8.55 percent of GDP in Oct-Dec 202
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 08:06 AM IST with headline  March sees sharp decline in stock market volumes amid heightened volatility is: 
 In March, Sensex and Nifty gained 1.6 percent each while BSE Smallcap and midcap fell 0.6 percent and 4.55 percent respectively. March saw a notable decline in daily volumes in both cash and derivative segments of stock exchanges, thanks to a heightened volatility in the equity market.The average daily turnover in the equity cash segment of the BSE and the NSE dropped 13.33 percent, the most since October 2023, to Rs 1.12 lakh crore. Similarly, the average daily turnover for derivatives decreased by 8.76 percent to Rs 373.44 lakh crore, marking the sharpest fall since April 2021, from Rs 409.27 lakh crore in February.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Average turnover in the cash segment in March fell compared to February due to the correction in the overall market from the second week of March and even sharper correction across the small and midcaps. The average turnover in derivatives fell as apart from the above reason, bounce in the third week of March was patchy among the F&O stocks. Also year-end considerations meant that the overall positions were reduced during the course of the month," said Deepak Jasani, head of retail research at HDFC Securities.
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 07:55 AM IST with headline  The Eastern Window: Xi Jinping tries to charm US CEOs as foreign investment slides is: 
 Xi Jinping's recent meeting with American business leaders and academics is being interpreted as a sign that he is extremely worried on the foreign investment front HighlightsXi Jinping recently met top American CEOs to convince them about the growth potential of China.FDI has shrunk to the lowest level in three decadesIMF has advised China to immediately initiate reform measuresChina fears the possible re-election of Donald Trump who has already threatened to impose harsh tariffs on Chinese good
 
The news published on the date April 01, 2024 09:39 AM IST with headline  After a blockbuster rally in FY24, will FY25 see an encore? is: 
 Market volatility is expected to remain elevated until election results are announced towards the end of Q1 FY25 FY24 has been a blockbuster year for Indian equities. We have seen a broad-based rally across size-segments as well as sectors. While the blue-chip index Nifty 50 has rallied by almost 30 percent, Nifty Midcap 100 and Nifty Smallcap 100 indices have delivered massive returns of 60 percent and 70 percent respectively.Even among the relatively sober blue-chips, we have seen a secular rally as 47 out of 50 stocks of the Nifty 50 index have yielded mor
 
The news published on the date March 31, 2024 05:56 PM IST with headline  China's March factory activity expands for first time in six months is: 
 The official non-manufacturing PMI, which includes services and construction, rose to 53 from 51.4 in February, marking the highest reading since September China's manufacturing activity expanded for the first time in six months in March, an official factory survey showed on Sunday, offering relief to policymakers even as a crisis in the property sector remains a drag on the economy and confidence.The official purchasing managers' index (PMI) rose to 50.8 in March from 49.1 in February, above the 50-mark separating growth from contraction and topping a median forecast of 49.9 in a Reuters poll.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRecent upbeat indicators suggest the world's second-largest economy is slowly getting back on better footing, leading analysts to start upgrading their growth forecasts for the year. Policymakers have wrestled with persistent economic sluggishness since the abandonment of China's strict COVID curbs in late 2022."March data show the economy is poised for a strong end to Q1," China Beige Book, an advisory firm, said in a note last week. "Hiring recorded its longest stretch of improvement since late 2020. Manufacturing picked up, as did retail."However, a deep slump in the Asian giant's property sector remains a major drag on growth, testing the health of heavily indebted local governments and state-owned banks' balance sheets.
 
The news published on the date March 30, 2024 10:46 PM IST with headline  Hand spectrometers to students rather than subsidies to chip makers: Raghuram Rajan is: 
 Former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan India needs to focus on more pressing needs, such as putting spectrometers into colleges to produce first-rate science students, rather than wooing chip manufacturers with subsidies, says Raghuram Rajan.While the former central bank governor clarified that it is not that India should never make chips, "but with every nation trying to pursue the same, it would be a ruinous race to get into now".Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Furthermore, it is far from clear how the government decides which industry, sector, or firm gets subsidies. Chip manufacturing is certainly not a labor-intensive industry when jobs are our most important challenge," Rajan said in a LinkedIn post early March 30.Rajan's take on this comes at a time when the Union Cabinet just last month approved three semiconductor plants under its Rs 76,000 crore ($10 billion) chip subsidy scheme. Of the Rs 1.26 lakh crore ($15 billion) total investments in these three facilities, an estimated Rs 48,000 crore ($5.8 billion) will be financed by the Centre's subsidies.The former Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor's comments in a recent interview with news agency Bloomberg have stirred up a debate on social media, wherein he criticised the government for focussing on high-profile projects like chip manufacturing instead of fixing the education system.
 
The news published on the date March 31, 2024 01:48 AM IST with headline  India's GDP set to grow 8% or more in Jan-March quarter, finance minister says is: 
 India’s GDP data for the Jan-March quarter is due to be released on May 31. India’s gross domestic product (GDP) is on track to grow by 8% or more in the quarter ending March 31, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Saturday.The economy is expected to show the same rate of year-on-year expansion for the 2023/24 financial year, Sitharaman added, citing the impact of improved inflation management and macroeconomic stability.Story continues below Advertisement"Hopefully the fourth quarter … will also have (growth) of 8% or above 8% resulting in 2023/24 having an average growth in GDP of 8% or over 8%," Sitharaman said during an event in the financial hub of Mumbai.India’s GDP data for the Jan-March quarter is due to be released on May 31.Asia’s third-largest economy grew 8.4% in the October-December quarter year-on-year, outpacing the 7.6% growth recorded for the previous quarter.India’s economy is projected to grow at 7.6% in the current fiscal year to March 31, according to the latest government estimates
 
The news published on the date March 30, 2024 11:29 AM IST with headline  Procurement through govt's online marketplace GeM crosses Rs 4 lakh crore so far this fiscal is: 
 The Government e-Market (GeM) portal was launched on August 9, 2016, for online purchases of goods and services by all central government ministries and departments The procurement of goods and services through government’s portal GeM has crossed Rs 4 lakh crore so far this fiscal due to higher buying activities by various ministries and departments, a senior government official said on Friday.The Government e-Market (GeM) portal was launched on August 9, 2016, for online purchases of goods and services by all central government ministries and departments.”As of March 28, the procurement has crossed Rs 4 lakh crore.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIt is historic,” GeM CEO P K Singh told reporters here. He said that defence sector buyers are buying several goods and services from the platform. ”Assembly of BrahMos missile is being done through GeM as a service contract. In defence, right from supplying eggs up to the missile parts is being done through the portal,” Singh said. In 2021-22 the procurement value stood at Rs 1.06 lakh crore and it crossed Rs 2 lakh crore last financial year. He said that procurement of services from the portal has jumped from Rs 66,000 crore in 2022-23 to Rs 2.05 lakh crore so far this fiscal. Similarly, goods worth Rs 1.95 lakh crore have been bought from the platform till March 28 this fiscal.About the possibility of opening up the portal for consumer at large, Singh said that is a very different ecosystem altogether. ”Yes we will be mulling over, we are preparing for that, we should be prepared for that if the government so desires. If feasible, if practical, we will do a small pilot in this area as well in the coming years, if the approvals are in place,” he said. He informed that several countries from Africa and South East Asia are showing keen interest in GeM. ”We can provide consultancy services also and can also set up similar platform for them.We have queries from several quarters. They have seen and studied our systems,” Singh added. He added that they want to develop GeM as a unified procurement portal of the country. Currently, only goods and services are allowed on the platform and ”we want to include works contract also and if it will come, it will be a big hit”, he said. Further, he said that a dedicated page for election related goods and services like catering and webcasting services are there on the portal. About engagement with states, he said states/Union Territories such as Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Odisha, Bihar, Assam, and Uttarakhand have placed significant procurement orders in the current fiscal. ”The contribution made by central entities including ministries and CPSEs has also greatly spurred the procurement.
 
The news published on the date March 30, 2024 10:04 AM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Weekender | The very long view is: 
 Optimism about the future drives all progress. Dear Reader, Earlier this month, IMF managing director Kristalina Georgieva delivered a speech at King’s College, Cambridge, on “The Economic Possibilities for my Grandchildren”, consciously echoing John Maynard Keynes’ famous 1930 essay titled “Economic Possibilities for our Grandchildren”.Keynes’ essay stands out for its optimism at a time when the stock markets had crashed, and the Great Depression was raging in the advanced economies. Looking beyond the bleak immediate future, he imagined the world a hundred years ahead, which is the world we live in today. The IMF chief singled out this optimism for her praise.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAnd why not? In her speech, Georgieva said that the massive increase in living standards across the world in the last 100 years is very close to the eight-fold rise that Keynes had predicted. She said, ‘’Even as the global population has quadrupled, per-capita global income has risen eightfold. Over the past three decades alone, 1.5 billion people lifted themselves out of poverty. And hundreds of millions entered the middle class. A hundred years ago, people were fortunate to live until their 40s. Today, on average, they can expect to live into their 70s. Consider also the dramatic improvements in infant mortality rates, literacy rates, and education levels—especially for girls.”The most important catalysts of change, said Georgieva, were technology, capital accumulation and economic integration. Keynes wrote in his essay: ‘’If capital increases, say, 2 per cent per annum, the capital equipment of the world will have increased by a half in twenty years, and seven and a half times in a hundred years. Think of this in terms of material things--houses, transport, and the like.’’ Add improvements in technology to the mix, and we have a recipe for a rapid rise in living standards.If we have done so well in the last hundred years, in spite of some egregious policies, not to speak of slaughter, famine and economic and financial mayhem, surely the next 100 years will be at least as rosy? The IMF has forecast two contrasting scenarios. In the optimistic scenario, extrapolating growth rates between 1920 and today for the next 100 years, it predicts a 9-fold rise in living standards. In the pessimistic scenario, it takes the rate of growth in the hundred years before 1920 as the norm—extrapolating that to the next 100 years gives a mere doubling of living standards.
 
The news published on the date March 29, 2024 08:38 PM IST with headline  RBI likely to hold rates in April MPC meet, may wait to assess policy actions of global central banks is: 
 RBI monetary policy meeting scheduled in first week of April Churchil BhattThere is a complete lack of buzz in the bond market when it comes to the upcoming monetary policy decision, with consensus for another one of those predictable, status quo policies. But predictable lacks excitement, predictable is boring. Yet, predictability is what policymakers often aim for, and rightly so. Anyway, at least for the time being, the narrative driving bond yields in India is anything but policy rates.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdJames Carville’s rather popular catchphrase of 1992, “It’s the economy, stupid.” was meant to direct the voter’s attention towards the recession in their economy. The situation today is diametrically opposite, locally and globally. Clarion calls of global recession have sunk into oblivion. So much so that the most widely anticipated US recession may not ever arrive. Germany, the UK and a few other economies flirted briefly with negative growth but failed to get much attention. Uncle Sam’s economy, on the other hand, is growing strong, almost oblivious to the Federal Reserve’s restrictive monetary policy.There is also a case of global inflation reacting a bit too slowly to central bank tightening, especially on the services side. Over the last couple of months, the world has discovered that the last mile in the fight against inflation is a long-drawn one. Consequently, prospects of rate cuts have been delayed, though not yet derailed. As a result, we have witnessed lots of volatility in global bond yields, but not so much in India.Also read: HDFC Bank raises new home loan rates even as repo rate stays steady. Here’s why
 
The news published on the date March 29, 2024 06:27 PM IST with headline  Boeing heard the warnings. It just didn't listen is: 
 Boeing executives must not have listened and the 737 Max crashes apparently weren’t a sufficiently loud wake-up call. The strange thing about Boeing Co’s crisis is that so many people saw it coming — and tried to stop it. The planemaker’s safety problems have been obvious since two 737 Max jets crashed in late 2018 and early 2019, killing 346 people. Boeing’s engineers were warning managers of potential quality problems as far back as 2001. But Boeing executives must not have listened and the 737 Max crashes apparently weren’t a sufficiently loud wake-up call.So far this year, a panel has blown off a Boeing plane in dramatic fashion, both the chairman and chief executive officer said they are stepping down and the company’s share price has tumbled 27 percent. So why haven’t those occupying the C-Suite heeded the engineers flagging safety issues? Why did they — according to whistleblowers — silence and ignore those employees? These are the most pressing questions for Boeing’s incoming leadership team. Without clear answers, the new executives will be doomed to repeat the mistakes of their predecessors.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMost leaders of manufacturing companies live in fear of being blindsided by a serious safety issue. Perhaps that’s why business schools have devoted so much time worrying about how leaders can encourage employees to speak up about problems.But Boeing’s problem isn’t one of speaking up. It’s one of listening up. That puts the onus squarely on senior leaders. Amy Edmondson, a professor at Harvard Business School and author of Right Kind of Wrong: The Science of Failing Well, says hearing employees requires two things. First, interpersonal skills — “listening to learn, asking follow-up questions, walking down the ladder of inference so that ultimately both members of the conversation have learned something.” And second, systems that force those conversations to happen on a regular basis.Those systems could take a number of forms, says James Detert, a professor at the University of Virginia’s Darden School of Business and the author of Choosing Courage: The Everyday Guide to Being Brave at Work. At the extreme end are whistleblower hotlines, anonymous complaint processes and organizational ombudsmen. More routine measures include skip-level meetings and lunch chats with management.
 
The news published on the date March 29, 2024 06:13 PM IST with headline  A TikTok ban wouldn’t end influencers’ dreams. Maybe it should is: 
 A ban of TikTok wouldn’t kill the influencer dream — they could just pivot to a different platform. Of all the many kinds of TikTok users in the US — the casual consumer, the follower of viral content, the obsessed fan — the most famous is probably the influencer. And all the kids these days hoping to become famous on social media could be just the lobbying force TikTok needs as it implores its users to call their representatives in Washington to fight a ban: It’s their livelihoods, after all, that are on the line.Of course, a ban of TikTok wouldn’t kill the influencer dream — they could just pivot to a different platform. But it might be better for everyone if it did.I write as someone who made a portion of my living as an influencer years before TikTok existed. Obviously, to Gen Z — and certainly to Gen Alpha — I’m just an old millennial wagging my finger. (Granted, I did just use the phrase “kids these days,” so the charge isn’t entirely off base!) What gives me pause about the TikTok lobbying campaign isn’t the app itself — I don’t use it — but rather the notion that a career as an influencer, whatever that means, is something to strive for. I know the compromises that sometimes need to be made as you mine your personal life for content, and how hard it can be to draw boundaries with online followers who engage in parasocial relationships with you.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOpening the door to potentially millions of people to comment on your life choices is a vulnerable act, especially since you can’t take back what you’ve already shared. Electing to be public about your romantic relationships, finances, mental health, family dynamics and parenting style means allowing strangers to feel personally involved and affected by your choices. It can also lead to compromising your real-life relationships for the sake of your online content and leveraging other people’s lives and narratives without their explicit consent.One life lesson that’s hard to fully embrace in your teens and 20s is just how much you will change with each passing decade. As your life unfolds, your interests, opinions and values will evolve. This isn’t to say your 33-year-old self will dislike the person you were at 23. But that 33-year-old will almost certainly cringe at some of what’s in the 23-year-old’s journal.Now imagine that journal is a video — and it’s online for everyone to see, in perpetuity. And then think about what it would mean if your entire brand and business were built on the personality and opinions you had at 23.
 
The news published on the date March 29, 2024 06:35 PM IST with headline  The Reading List: March 29, 2024 is: 
 It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. In a world strapped for time, we thought you may find it useful to have a selection of articles we read this past week. It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. Occasionally, we may stray from these subjects.These links may be from external websites we frequent o
 
The news published on the date March 29, 2024 01:39 PM IST with headline  Pakistan needs to get India's 'Yes' to resume trade is: 
 India Pakistan Pakistani Finance Minister Ishaq Dar raised more than a few eyebrows last week when he said — almost as an aside — that his country’s new government would “seriously look into matters of trade with India”. A resumption of trade would be something of a climbdown for Pakistan, which cut off economic ties when Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi unilaterally withdrew Kashmir’s special constitutional status in 2019. Until now, Pakistani leaders have insisted they wouldn’t restore relations until the decision was reversed.Dar’s statement should not come as a complete surprise. His party, the Pakistan Muslim League-N, has a very particular class basis: It’s an alliance between the semi-urban petty bourgeoisie and large industrialists such as its leader, former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif. These constituencies have always seen the benefits — for themselves and for Pakistan — of normalizing trade ties with a large and growing India.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThose gains are potentially substantial, especially for a country as desperate for hard currency as Pakistan is today. The World Bank estimated in 2018 that Pakistan’s exports could increase by as much as 80% — about $25 billion at that point — if trade with India reached its potential.At this point, Pakistan simply can’t afford to forego billions of dollars. Its economy is on life support, stumbling from handout to handout. It just managed to secure the last tranche of a $3 billion bailout from the International Monetary Fund, and Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif — Nawaz’s brother — indicated that more money would soon be needed. Without further cash, he said, restoring macroeconomic stability would be impossible.The problem is that Pakistan needs India far more than India needs Pakistan. The Indian economy is stable and India remains deeply reluctant to open its markets to other developing countries who might put local producers out of business.
 
The news published on the date March 29, 2024 12:28 PM IST with headline  Business in the Week Ahead: April 1-5, 2024 is: 
 The Reserve Bank of India’s Monetary Policy Committee will meet on April 3-5, 2024 FY24 has been a remunerative year for investors. The Nifty 50 index gained about 28 percent in the last one year. The broader benchmark Nifty 500 index rose 39 percent, reflecting widespread gains in stock prices. The sharp rally in mid cap and small cap shares followed by the fall towards the end of the year has made investors cautious. Experts warn market returns can moderate from here on unless earnings measure up.FY25 will begin with updat
 
The news published on the date March 29, 2024 02:17 PM IST with headline  India keen on trade deals with Britain, Oman early in PM Modi's probable third term: Report is: 
 India keen on trade deals with Britain, Oman early in PM Modi's probable third term: Report Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to prioritise completion of free trade deals with Britain and Oman in the first 100 days of the next government if he wins upcoming elections as opinion polls predict, two government sources said.Modi has asked Indian ministries to set annual goals for the next five years that will fit into a 100-day action plan as he chalks out a strategy to fuel further growth in Asia's third-largest economy.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAmong its goals for the 100-day plan, the trade ministry aims to feature the pacts with Britain and Oman, as talks on both deals are in their final stages, said the sources, who have direct knowledge of the discussions.They sought anonymity as details of the plan are private.This month Modi identified integrating India into world trade as a key priority area in talks with senior government officials, according to a document seen by Reuters.
 
The news published on the date March 29, 2024 11:11 AM IST with headline  Indian economy in 'severe distress' but BJP 'doctors' don't understand: Chidambaram is: 
 Indian economy in 'severe distress' but BJP 'doctors' don't understand: Chidambaram Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Thursday claimed that the Indian economy is in "severe distress" and alleged "the so-called doctors of the BJP" do not care.In a post on X, the former finance minister said the BJP claims that the Indian economy is in robust health in 2023-24, but has no explanation why net foreign direct investment (FDI) inflows have dropped by 31 per cent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFDI is a measure of the confidence that foreign investors have in a country, the government and its policies, he pointed out.Such confidence has declined sharply in 2023-24, Chidambaram said."BJP gives certificates to itself. The good certificate must come from foreign and Indian investors. Indian investors have expressed no confidence in the policies of the BJP government during the last three years," he said.
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 11:41 PM IST with headline  Oil prices up more than $1 a barrel on tighter supply outlook is: 
 Oil prices up more than $1 a barrel on tighter supply outlook Oil prices rose by more than $1 a barrel on Thursday, after falling for two consecutive sessions, on the prospect of supplies given the OPEC+ producer alliance is widely expected to stay the course on its current production cuts.Brent crude futures for May were up $1.30, or 1.5%, at $87.39 a barrel at 1:28 p.m. EDT (1728 GMT). The more actively traded June contract rose $1.22, or 1.4%, to $86.43 at 1:28 p.m. The May contract expires on Thursday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdU.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures for May delivery were up $1.43, or 1.8%, at $82.78 a barrel.Both benchmarks were up more than 2% on the week and were on track to finish higher for a third consecutive month.In the prior session, oil prices had come under pressure from last week's unexpected rise in U.S. crude oil and gasoline inventories, driven by an increase in crude imports and sluggish gasoline demand, according to Energy Information Administration data.
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 11:35 PM IST with headline  Stocks flat as strong quarter nears end; yen on intervention watch is: 
 Stocks flat as strong quarter nears end; yen on intervention watch A gauge of global share markets was little changed on Thursday as it headed for its second straight quarter of solid gains, while a strong dollar kept the yen near its weakest in decades amid the threat of intervention from Japanese authorities.Wall Street's main stock indexes also showed minimal change and markets broadly were largely rangebound ahead of Friday's much-anticipated U.S. personal consumption expenditures (PCE) price index data, a closely watched inflation measure. Few markets will be open to assess and respond to the fresh data, however, given the long Easter weekend in many countries.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"People are probably a little cautious about positioning ahead of PCE," said Sameer Samana, senior global market strategist at the Wells Fargo Investment Institute."For a lot of people today will be the last day of the week, they are probably squaring positions for the quarter, for the month."Heightened focus was on the yen, which last weakened 0.05% against the greenback to 151.35 per dollar, having slid to a 34-year low of 151.975 in the previous session.
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 11:21 PM IST with headline  Govt updates list of banks authorised to import gold, silver during FY25 is: 
 Govt updates list of banks authorised to import gold, silver during FY25 The government on Thursday updated the list of banks authorised to import gold and silver during 2024-25. As per the list, 11 banks, including HDFC Bank and ICICI Bank, have been authorised by the Reserve Bank of India to import gold and silver for 2024-25 with effect from April 1.The authorisation will be valid up to March 31 next year. "List of banks authorised to import gold/silver…has been updated," the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) said in a public notice.Story continues below AdvertisementThree banks — Indian Overseas Bank, Punjab National Bank, and Union Bank of India — have authorised by the RBI to import only gold for 2024-25 with effect from April 1 this year. Gold imports rose 38.76 per cent to USD 44 billion during April-February this fiscal.However, silver imports dipped 11.53 per cent to USD 4.62 billion during the period
 
The news published on the date March 29, 2024 03:01 AM IST with headline  Gold rises towards best month in more than a year, US data in focus is: 
 Gold rises towards best month in more than a year, US data in focus Gold prices climbed on Thursday and were set to log their best month in over a year, bolstered by strong safe-haven demand, U.S. interest rate cut expectations and central bank buying.Spot gold gained 0.5% to $2,204.99 per ounce as of 10:20 a.m. EDT (1420 GMT), eyeing its best month since November 2022 gaining around 8% so far, and a second straight quarterly rise. U.S. gold futures edged 0.7% higher to $2,204.80.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhile there are some indications that inflation is running hotter than policymakers would like, that doesn't necessarily explain the high valuations for gold right now, said Everett Millman, chief market analyst with Gainesville Coins."Maybe it has a bit to do with the fact that there are still major geopolitical tensions globally," including in Gaza and Ukraine, as well as trade uncertainty, which could push investors to turn to gold as a neutral reserve asset, Millman said.Gold hit a record high last week after the U.S. Federal Reserve anticipated three rate cuts in 2024. Traders are currently pricing in a 64% chance of a June rate cut, according to CME's FedWatch tool..
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 06:20 PM IST with headline  US economic growth for last quarter is revised up slightly to a healthy 3.4% annual rate is: 
 US economic growth for last quarter is revised up slightly to a healthy 3.4% annual rate The U.S. economy grew at a solid 3.4% annual pace from October through December, the government said Thursday in an upgrade from its previous estimate.The government had previously estimated that the economy grew at a 3.2% annual rate last quarter.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Commerce Department's revised measure of the nation's gross domestic product, the total output of goods and services, confirmed that the economy decelerated from its sizzling 4.9% rate of expansion in the July-September quarter.But last quarter's growth was still a solid performance, coming in the face of higher interest rates and powered by growing consumer spending, exports and business investment in buildings and software. It marked the sixth straight quarter in which the economy has grown at an annual rate above 2%.For all of 2023, the U.S. economy, the world's biggest, grew 2.5%, up from 1.9% in 2022. In the current January-March quarter, the economy is believed to be growing at a slower but still decent 2.1% annual rate, according to a forecasting model issued by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta.
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 05:56 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Will M&As be the flavour of 2024? is: 
 - Dear Reader,Corporate confidence is on the upswing. Mega mergers and acquisitions (M&As) have hogged media headlines globally in the March quarter of 2024 (Q1 CY24).Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn the past two years, frenzied activity was witnessed in the private equity and venture capital deals and in the initial public offering (IPO) markets. But there was a slump in M&A activity across the world and across industries, with deals ticked plunging to a decadal low.The rebound comes as a pleasant surprise, with the global M&A value in Q1CY24 rising 30 per cent year-on-year (yoy) to $690 billion. According to data from the London Stock Exchange quoted in this FT article, the number of blockbuster deals worth at least $10 billion saw a marked increase to 11 in Q1 CY24 from 5 in Q1 CY23.The sudden turnaround in sentiment comes because of several factors -- financial liquidity, a vibrant capital market, healthy corporate balance sheets and, more importantly, hope that the cost of money is on its way down as interest rates ease. Investment bankers point to a higher degree of engagement in recent months, among companies, investors and financial institutions.
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 04:30 PM IST with headline  Mutual funds to keep buying state bonds as yields to come off, fund managers say is: 
 Mutual funds to keep buying state bonds as yields to come off, fund managers say Indian mutual funds are likely to continue swapping the central government debt on their books with high-yielding state government bonds after active purchases over the last few days, four fund managers said on Thursday."Mutual funds likely sold 10-year government bond and got into state debt, as yield spread of around 40 basis points is still decent," said Avnish Jain, head of fixed income at Canara Robeco Asset Management.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdJain expects mutual funds to continue with this switch in the next quarter amid expectations that state bond yields will slip when compared with central bonds.Mutual funds have net sold central government bonds worth 143 billion rupees ($1.72 billion) over the last seven sessions, including a record single-session sale of more than 60 billion rupees on Monday, data showed.The sale has coincided with record debt auctions from states, which raised an aggregate of 1.29 trillion rupees via three debt auctions.
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 04:25 PM IST with headline  US cryptocurrency ETF inflows pick up as bitcoin price recovers is: 
 US cryptocurrency ETF inflows pick up as bitcoin price recovers Inflows into the nine recently launched exchange-traded funds (ETFs) tied to bitcoin have resumed their upward trajectory this week after the cryptocurrency's price bounced back from its dip last week."The resumption in bitcoin's strong performance is sparking renewed interest in the ETFs," said Todd Rosenbluth, head of research at VettaFi, an analysis firm.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe nine funds that made their debut in January pulled in nearly $1 billion in assets in the first two days of this week, according to data from BitMEX Research. Wednesday's flows data will be available on Thursday morning.But the leadership has shifted from BlackRock's iShares Bitcoin Trust to the Fidelity Wise Origin Bitcoin Fund. The latter attracted $540.9 million in assets Monday and Tuesday, more than double the $197.7 million BlackRock's fund drew in the same period, BitMEX data showed.The one fund that continues to buck this trend is the Grayscale Bitcoin Trust, which existed as a publicly traded trust before it converted into an ETF on the same day the other nine ETFs launched. It has seen steady outflows since then, regardless of bitcoin's price movements. In the first two days of this week, those outflows reached $562.4 million.
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 04:13 PM IST with headline  Rupee falls 6 paise to settle at 83.39 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee falls 6 paise to settle at 83.39 against US dollar The rupee depreciated 6 paise to settle at 83.39 (provisional) against the US dollar on Thursday due to a strengthening greenback against major rivals overseas and rising crude oil prices in the international markets.However, a firm trend in domestic equity markets and recent foreign fund inflows supported the domestic currency, forex traders said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 83.32 and oscillated between the intra-day peak of 83.30 and the lowest level of 83.40 against the greenback. The local unit finally settled at 83.39 (provisional), registering a loss of 6 paise from its previous close.On Wednesday, the rupee declined 4 paise to close at 83.33 against the US dollar.Meanwhile, the dollar index, which gauges the greenback's strength against a basket of six currencies, was trading 0.34 per cent higher at 104.42.
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 05:12 PM IST with headline  India to send teams to Chile seeking lithium and copper assets: Report is: 
 India to send teams to Chile seeking lithium and copper assets: Report India will send two delegations next month to Chile to scout for lithium and copper resources, a government source said, as rapid economic expansion and New Delhi's efforts to speed up the energy transition stoke demand for critical minerals.Chile is a key target as it is the world's biggest supplier of copper and the second-biggest producer of lithium, which are essential for electric vehicle batteries and renewable energy systems in the push away from fossil fuels.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAs part of India's drive to explore overseas for mineral assets, state firms National Aluminium Company, Hindustan Copper and unlisted Mineral Exploration and Consultancy have set up a company called Khanij Bidesh India (KABIL)."KABIL has to send a delegation to Chile in April," said the source, who did not wish to be named as details of the plan have not been made public."We are interested in buying assets. We are trying to facilitate private and government-owned companies to acquire assets in other countries as well."
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 05:12 PM IST with headline  MGNREGS wage rates revised, hikes range between 4-10% for different states is: 
 MGNREGS wage rates revised, hikes range between 4-10% for different states Wages under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme have been revised, with hikes ranging between four and 10 per cent for different states.Haryana has the highest wage rate for unskilled workers under the scheme at Rs 374 a day, while Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland have the lowest at Rs 234, according to a notification.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe wage rate in three panchayats of Sikkim -- Gnathang, Lachung and Lachen -- is Rs 374 a day.The wage revision under the scheme was notified by the Union rural development ministry on March 27 after clearance from the Election Commission as the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) is in force for the Lok Sabha polls.The increases have been made on the 2023 wage rates under scheme that is aimed at enhancing livelihood security of households in rural areas by providing at least 100 days of guaranteed wage employment in a financial year to every household whose adult members volunteer to do unskilled manual work.
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 05:39 PM IST with headline  Indian economy can grow at 8% till 2047, says Subramanian is: 
 Indian economy can grow at 8% till 2047, says Subramanian Indian economy can grow at 8 per cent till 2047, if the country can redouble the good policies that it has implemented over the last 10 years and accelerate reforms, India's executive director at International Monetary Fund (IMF) Krishnamurthy Venkata Subramanian said on Thursday.Subramanian further said that clearly 8 per cent growth target is ambitious, because India has not grown consistently at 8 per cent before, but it is achievable.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"So, the basic idea is that with the kind of growth that India has registered in the last 10 years, if we can redouble the good policies that we have implemented over the last 10 years and accelerate the reforms, then India can grow at 8 per cent from here on till 2047," he said at the Times Now Summit.India's economy grew at better-than-expected 8.4 per cent in the final three months of 2023, logging the fastest pace in the past one-and-a-half years.The growth rate in October-December helped take the estimate for the current fiscal to 7.6 per cent.
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 07:27 PM IST with headline  Currency Markets: A decline in the Euro to parity with the Dollar beckons is: 
 The euro has held up remarkably well against the dollar. Despite the euro zone having lower official interest rates and a notably softer economy than the US, the euro has held up remarkably well against the dollar. The foreign exchange market’s most popular currency pair trades not just in line its $1.085 average of the past year but within reach of the $1.11 five-year mean. The common currency, however, can’t defy gravity forever — so a return toward parity with the greenback looks more likely than not over the course of this year.At about 6.6 percent, the exchange rate’s volatility is the lowest it’s been since November 2021, having fallen from nearly 11 percent a year ago and illustrating how becalmed the market has become. This peaceful state may prove transient; given that rate-cutting cycles and recessions tend to hit the weaker side hardest, the euro looks increasingly vulnerable.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe two main drivers of currency values are relative central bank interest rates and respective growth outlooks Both are fading faster in Europe than stateside. It's not just about absolute measures, but how those respective differences contract or widen that typically influence the foreign exchange market. On both measures, the US position looks superior, with the dollar also underpinned by its status as the world’s reserve currency.One other salient factor is investor positioning. Bank of New York Mellon Corp.’s proprietary iFlow system tracks its global custody client holdings which, worth $46 trillion, are the world's biggest. On balance, clients remain overweight in euros. Geoffrey Yu, the bank’s senior strategist expects euro-dollar parity to return, not just due to fundamental economic and monetary reasons but because investors are shifting rapidly from being extremely long of euros. An exodus out of the common currency amid the energy-price shock following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine saw it fall below parity with the dollar for most of the final months of 2022. Asset owners had shifted steadily back into euros over the last 18 months but their enthusiasm is waning. Yu reckons holding euros has been used by investors as a counterbalance against too much exposure to better-performing US markets. But risk-on assets such as US tech stocks are increasingly seen as one-way surefire bets, while for risk-off safety a 5.4 percent yield on US Treasury bills is hard to beat. Being overweight euros may no longer be the optimal choice.
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 01:01 PM IST with headline  Boeing Crisis: Time for India to step into aircraft manufacturing as demand soars is: 
 Time may be ripe for India to foray into making large aircraft. India has to enter the business of building commercial passenger aircraft, not just the small craft that it is planning to build in collaboration with Embraer, Brazil’s maker of regional airliners. This is essential for India’s own unconstrained growth, and for the world to have a non-Chinese alternative, when it comes to additional suppliers of large passenger aircraft.In 2023, Boeing forecast global demand for an additional 42,600 commercial jets over the next 20 years, a large share of the additional demand coming from Asia. Right now, the world depends on the global duopoly of Boeing and Airbus in the manufacture of large passenger aircraft to meet this demand.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe duopoly has been demonstrably inefficient for quite some time. The time between placing an order and receiving deliveries has been lengthening, thanks to the ever-rising demand for aircraft from fast-growing economies like China and India, in addition to the rising appetite for air travel as incomes rise in the rich world itself. Boeing’s quality problems show that it is not easy even for a company like that to expand capacity fast while maintaining quality.Trouble in the Skies Boeing’s problems that began with the inexplicable crash of its mid-sized 737 Max planes, killing 349 people aboard in two separate incidents in 2018 and 2019, and resulting in the prolonged grounding of 737 Max planes, have continued, and now resulted in the decision for three of its senior-most executives to leave, including the chairman and the chief executive officer. There is no known sorcery that would turn the sacrifice of three honcho heads into any rocketing rise in the company’s standards of quality control to the level of zero error demanded by the business of building large planes in which people fly.
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 07:54 PM IST with headline  India open to joining trade blocs with China if its economy is WTO compliant, trade minister says is: 
 India open to joining trade blocs with China if its economy is WTO compliant, trade minister says India is open to being a part of trading blocs which include China if Beijing ensures its economy is open, transparent, and complies with the rules of the World Trade Organisation, India's trade minister Piyush Goyal said at a media event on Thursday
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 11:00 AM IST with headline  Malaysia to request additional 500,000 metric tons of white rice from India is: 
 Malaysia to request additional 500,000 metric tons of white rice from India Malaysia will submit an request to India to procure an additional 500,000 metric tons of white rice, its agriculture minister said.The request would be in addition to the 170,000 tons of white rice India has previously allocated to Malaysia for the year. India, the world's biggest rice exporter, had restricted shipments to offset inflation and ensure food security.Story continues below AdvertisementAccording to state-run rice importer Bernas, Malaysia's annual rice consumption is 2.5 million metric tons, with an average imported supply of 750,000 tons."The government will send an official request to India through diplomatic channels shortly," Agriculture Minister Mohamad Sabu said in a Facebook post late on Wednesday, following a meeting with India's Foreign Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar.Mohamad said Malaysia had also submitted a request to India in January for 100,000 metric tons of onions through a government-to-government arrangement
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 09:02 AM IST with headline  Start-up Street: Royalty payments – a new way to finance or fleece start-ups? is: 
 - In the latest season of Shark Tank India (Season 3), a new phenomenon has emerged: investors (aka Sharks) are demanding royalty, much like celebrities do and in line with what’s been happening in the US edition. This is over and above an equity stake for their investment.According to an analysis made of Shark Tank India (including Season 3 till the completion of 40 episodes), Season 1 saw 115 pitches (65 got funded), Season 2 – 165 (10
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 07:58 PM IST with headline  Oil falls for second day as US crude inventories surge is: 
 Oil falls for second day as US crude inventories surge Oil prices fell for a second day on Wednesday on surging U.S. stockpiles and signs the OPEC+ producer group is unlikely to change its output policy at a technical meeting next week.Brent crude futures for May dropped 70 cents, or 0.8%, to $85.55 a barrel by 1258 GMT while the more actively traded June contract was down 61 cents, or 0.7%, at $85.02. The May contract expires on Thursday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdU.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures for May delivery fell 59 cents, or 0.7%, to $81.03. Both benchmarks had fallen by more than $1 in earlier trading.Prices have retreated since climbing to their highest since October last week and remain about 3% above the average closing price in the first week of March.A sharp rise in U.S. crude inventories and expectations for potential inaction by OPEC+ next week prompted further "unwinding" in oil prices as profit-taking accelerates after the mid-March rally, said IG market strategist Jun Rong Yeap.
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 05:38 PM IST with headline  Ukraine War: German refusal to send Taurus missiles is emboldening Putin is: 
 Olaf Scholz is the center of concern. (Source: Bloomberg) For more than two years, Vladimir Putin’s bluster, blame and threats of escalation have been driven by a singular goal: deterring and discouraging Western support for Ukraine. Worryingly, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz is giving Putin reasons to think his tactics are working.After stalling for months, Scholz rejected Ukraine’s request for Germany’s long-range Taurus missile system. The decision reflects Scholz’s political sensitivities and an overarching German concern about escalating the conflict with Russia. Yet by sowing confusion and alienating allies, Scholz’s handling of the matter is likely only to further embolden Putin and endanger Europe’s security.The Taurus missiles would doubtless boost Ukraine’s ability to strike Russian supply lines and better defend against the kind of attacks on cities and vital infrastructure the country is again experiencing. Two similar long-range cruise missiles, the UK-supplied Storm Shadow and the French Scalp, have proved highly effective, notably in helping to take out about a third of Russia’s Black Sea fleet. Limited numbers, and their high unit cost, have forced Ukraine to ration their use. The Taurus would boost that stock, offer comparable or greater range, and is a weapon that is highly resistant to detection and jamming attempts.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdScholz has contended that sending the missiles would require deploying German soldiers to Ukraine — a claim disputed by members of his own coalition and some in the military. A leaked conversation about the Taurus by German air force officers (held over an insecure Webex line and published by Russia), and Scholz’s own loose lips, angered Germany’s closest allies.Meanwhile, Scholz has turned down British offers to send more Storm Shadows and backfill UK stock with Taurus missiles. That may be out of concern that giving away the weapons and data systems they rely on will erode the already diminished capabilities of the Bundeswehr, Germany’s military. A recently released annual report on the state of the armed forces found alarming shortfalls in personnel and weapons, as well as a lack of leadership and training.
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 08:02 PM IST with headline  US: Applying Sahm recession rule to individual states is a mistake is: 
 The patterns in unemployment across states reveal the important role of immigrants in re-balancing of the labour market. The United States has been under a “recession warning” for two years now. And after a brief lull as we entered 2024, the alarms are sounding again. It’s not the usual suspects of an inverted Treasury market yield curve or low consumer and business sentiment. Instead, some economists worry that the rising unemployment rate in several states means a recession is coming - or even here already.The basis for these warnings is a highly accurate recession indicator I developed that has become known as the Sahm rule. As I have explained before, the premise is simple. If the three-month average of the unemployment rate (the monthly rate often bounces around too much) is half a percentage point or more above its low in the prior 12 months, the economy is in a recession. Applying the logic of the rule to individual states would reveal that 20 of them should be in a recession, right? After all, these states account for more than 40 percent of the US labour force and includes California, which alone has 11 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlthough this may appear dire, the increase in unemployment rates stem partly from the strength of the economy the past few years, strength that has attracted much needed immigration to meet the demands of a hot labour market. According to the Congressional Budget Office, net immigration totaled 2.6 million in 2022 and 3.3 million in 2023, rising from an average of 900,000 a year from 2010 to 2019.As immigrants enter the economy, especially in large numbers, it can take them time to find work — likely even longer than US-born new entrants to the labour force. Moreover, immigrants have higher labour force participation rates overall than US-born individuals. The immigration process itself can create delays in legal employment, especially for humanitarian parolees and asylum seekers. More generally, an increase in the labour force has been long understood to be a “good” reason for why the unemployment rate temporarily rises as new workers find jobs.Indeed, the national unemployment rate drifted higher, from 3.5 percent in July to 3.9 percent in February, along with increased immigration and other new entrants to the labour force, such as women, people of color, and people with disabilities. However, immigrants are not evenly spread across the country, so the national drift upward in unemployment has been more pronounced in certain states. The three with highest immigrant share in their state population — California (27 percent), New Jersey (24 percent), and New York (27 percent) — have some of the largest increases in unemployment. They also account for 20 percent of the US labour force.
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 05:10 PM IST with headline  Central bank keen to further build up record high FX reserves, say sources is: 
 Central bank keen to further build up record high FX reserves, say sources India's central bank will keep building its forex reserves as it seeks to build larger buffers, and strong inflows into the country's equity and debt markets give it an opportunity to do so, two sources familiar with the bank's thinking said.The Reserve Bank of India's absorption of dollar inflows will indirectly prevent a sharp appreciation of the rupee despite high growth in the economy and a positive balance of payments, analysts said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) FX reserves rose to a record high of $642.49 billion as of March 15."Reserves are just about adequate as per most of RBI's internally-monitored metrics while they are slightly below adequate on a couple of them. Exercise of building reserves will continue," a senior source aware of the RBI's thinking said.RBI did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 04:35 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Record MF inflow -- a boon or bane? is: 
 A significant uptick in investments over the past six months compared to the preceding period. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe robust performance of the Indian market, in contrast to many global counterparts, can be attributed to domestic investors. Each downturn has been met with purchases from these investors, countering the selling pressure from foreign counterparts.According to reports, equity mutual fund (MF) schemes have experienced a significant uptick in investments over the past six months compared to the preceding period. During the past six months leading up to February 2024, net lump sum inflows totalled Rs 46,200 crore. Notably, February 2024 recorded the highest inflow of Rs 11,500 crore through lump sum investments, marking the highest figure since March 2022.This news can be interpreted in two ways. First, in a bull market, investments tend to increase as the market ascends, as evidenced by the past six months' performance, during which the Nifty index exhibited a robust 13 percent return.
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 03:55 PM IST with headline  Rupee falls 7 paise to close at 83.36 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee falls 7 paise to close at 83.36 against US dollar The rupee declined by 7 paise to close at 83.36 (provisional) against the US dollar on Wednesday, tracking a strong American currency against major rivals overseas and weak Asian peers.However, a surge in domestic markets and a decline in crude oil prices cushioned the downside, forex traders said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 83.33 and touched an intraday low of 83.45 against the greenback. The local unit finally settled at 83.36 (provisional) against the dollar, registering a loss of 7 paise from its previous close.On Tuesday, the rupee recovered from all-time low levels and appreciated 32 paise to close at 83.29 against the US dollar.According to Anuj Choudhary Research Analyst, Sharekhan by BNP Paribas, the Indian rupee depreciated on Wednesday on strong US dollar and importer demand for US dollar. Weak Asian currencies also weighed on the rupee.
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 02:44 PM IST with headline  What do investors from the west love about the Indian economy | Samiran Chakraboraty, Managing Director, Citigroup Interview
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 02:18 PM IST with headline  China’s flight suspensions are bad for Singapore ties is: 
 Continued comity between China and Singapore could start to fracture if minor links break down. At first glance, the suspension of flights to two Chinese cities doesn’t look like a big deal for Singapore Airlines Ltd. After all, Chongqing and Chengdu aren’t major routes for the renowned carrier that boasts 130 destinations around the world, but the move could put a dampener on one of the strongest friendships in the region.From March 31, services between the city-state and China’s fourth and sixth largest metropolises will be halted less than five months after they began, the Straits Times reported citing a company spokesperson, who declined to elaborate. The airline didn’t receive approval from the Civil Aviation Administration of China, the second time in a year that the company’s flights to the country have been interrupted by regulatory uncertainty, the Chinese-language Singapore daily Lianhe Zaobao reported.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdLast year, Korean Air Lines Co and Asiana Airlines Inc started severing routes to China. Those cuts were in part mandated by a planned merger between the two carriers, but also came amid increased tensions between the countries and ongoing limits imposed by China, including restrictions on group tourism. Air China Ltd or Chongqing Airlines Co could pick up the vacated slots left by the recent suspension, Bloomberg Intelligence estimates.Singapore Airlines will be fine. The two cities accounted for just 1 percent of its scheduled China seats in the first quarter, Bloomberg Intelligence analysts Tim Bacchus and Eric Zhu wrote. The suspension, which so far only applies to the summer and autumn flight seasons, may be temporary, they wrote.But the cancellations and the lack of clarity for why don’t augur well for close links between China and one of its friendliest regional neighbours. As Asian nations including Japan, South Korea and the Philippines grow wary of Beijing’s expansion, Singapore has stood solid.
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 05:39 PM IST with headline  Germany is Europe’s sick man, but others are coughing is: 
 Optimism that a recession can be avoided is being tempered by anemic investment and productivity growth. Germany, the sick man of Europe, is about to end a quarter it would rather forget. The first three months of 2024 probably marked its second straight quarter of economic contraction, and for the full year it’s expected to deliver little to no growth. Its industrial powerhouse has become a liability, with demand still subdued, and a deglobalising world has robbed it of levers like Chinese exports, cheap Russian gas and a dependable US security guarantee.The new worry is the coughing sound coming from elsewhere in the euro zone. Economies like trade-dependent Netherlands and Ireland have been big drivers of European growth in recent years (maybe deceptively so in Ireland’s case), but now they’re stalling. France, whose demand-ledeconomy usually zigs when Germany zags, is eking out meager growth despite a swelling budget deficit as higher interest rates bite. Optimism that a recession can be avoided is being tempered by anemic investment and productivity growth.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhich leaves the last big bellwether left standing — Italy, where Giorgia Meloni’s officials are defying the gloom by expecting gross domestic product to expand around 1 percent this year. That would be better than Germany, France, the Netherlands and the euro average, and would be in keeping with Italy’s outperformance since 2019 despite a history of low growth, high debt and volatile politics. Alongside the likes of Spain and Portugal, which after years of crises are enjoying higher competitiveness and export growth, according to ING research, Italy’s recovery has been a boost for Europe.The problem is there are also signs of ill health, or what Italian Finance Minister Giancarlo Giorgetti recently called a “stomach ache.” He was referring to the Superbonus, a tax credit for eco-friendly home renovations worth 110 percent of their cost, which brought a big sugar rush for residential investment and played a significant fillip in Italy after the pandemic. Financiere de la Cite economist Nicolas Goetzmann estimates the superbonus — worth a staggering €107 billion ($116 billion) in eligible investment — added about 15 times more to euro-area GDP as Italian construction fixed investments than the entire German economy since end-2019.What’s given Giorgetti indigestion is not so much the growth but the hit to public finances — it’s a tax credit, after all — which is why the superbonus is being pared back after contributing to a budget deficit of 7.2 percent last year. And without it, Bloomberg Economics expects growth momentum to keep losing steam, as the above chart shows. “The economic benefits are in the past, while the fiscal cost is in the future,” says HSBC Holdings Plc economist Fabio Balboni.
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 01:42 PM IST with headline  US small-caps suffer worst run against larger stocks in more than 20 years is: 
 The small-cap rally that gathered pace in the final months of 2023 has petered out this year. George Steer in New YorkUS small-cap stocks are suffering their worst run of performance relative to large companies in more than 20 years, highlighting the extent to which investors have chased megacap technology stocks while smaller groups are weighed down by high interest rates.The Russell 2000 index has risen 24 per cent since the beginning of 2020, lagging the S&P 500’s more than 60 per cent gain over the same period. The gap in performance upends
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 02:02 PM IST with headline  RBI likely to set cut-off yield for T-Bills in 6.93%-7.14% band: Poll is: 
 RBI likely to set cut-off yield for T-Bills in 6.93%-7.14% band: Poll The Indian government aims to raise an aggregate of 340 billion rupees ($4.08 billion) through the sale of 91-day, 182-day and 364-day Treasury bills on Wednesday.The Reserve Bank of India will likely set cutoff yields for the same at 6.93%, 7.14% and 7.10% respectively, according to a Reuters poll of 13 traders.Story continues below AdvertisementNote Quantum (in bln Median Min Maxrupees)91-day 100 6.93% 6.88% 6.95%182-day 150 7.14% 7.11% 7.15%364-day 90 7.10% 7.08% 7.11
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 02:26 PM IST with headline  Report claims India has 247 million households with multiple income sources is: 
 An ‘entrepreneurial household’ is defined by those behind the study as one which has more than one source of income, making it more resilient to shocks. India has 247 million 'entrepreneurial households' with a Core Transaction Value, or CTV, of $8.8 trillion as of 2022-23, according to a recent study by consulting firm Praxis.These entrepreneurial households, defined as those whose members put together have more than one source of income, will see their CTV growing to $95.2 trillion by 2042-43, estimated the report.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: Govt survey finds per capita consumption spending up 33-40% in 2022-23 from 2011-12CTV is the sum of a household's income from all sources, any borrowings, and expenditure on key heads that don't include daily living costs and discretionary spending."If you look at any major emerging economy like India, the corporate side of the world has so much to do when it comes to the upper and upper-middle class… The large institutions are satiated with the business they have to deal with and there is very little incentive for someone to completely reboot and go deeper into the smaller ticket-size businesses," said Jyotsna Krishnan, co-founder of Enmasse World. Praxis conducted the study on her behalf.
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 09:50 AM IST with headline  Rupee value, forex reserves playing well to a longer-term scenario is: 
 - HighlightsLast Friday, March 22, the rupee hit a fresh low of 83.43 to the dollarThe rupee has been on a downward journey since last December and the reserves have been moving upwardThe rupee has been depreciating as importers’ demand for dollars has been increasing in good part because of the disruption in world trade as a result of the wars in the Ukraine and PalestineLooking ahead, where are the rupee and reserves headed
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 09:41 AM IST with headline  What the Hurun Rich list tells us is: 
 India has the third largest number of billionaires. The ranking in the rich list largely reflects the fortunes of the stock markets HighlightsThe ranking in the rich list largely reflects the fortunes of a country’s stock marketsThe drop in the number of Chinese billionaires is the result of a sharp fall in China’s marketsThe dislodging of Beijing by Mumbai in the Hurun Rich list is an indicator of changing geopoliticsThe share of the richest 1 percent in total wealth has increased dramatically since liberalisation, under all government
 
The news published on the date March 28, 2024 02:47 PM IST with headline  India’s AC market is facing supply heat is: 
 Rising competition to put strain on margins Key highlightsEvolving consumer lifestyle, increasing income levels, rising temperature driving RAC demandDomestic market for RACs is pegged around 9 million unitsLocal value addition for RACs has increased to 60-65 percent in 2023Contract manufacturers facing challenges as OEMs are setting up in-house capacitiesRAC segment revenues for both Amber Enterprises and PG Electroplast declined in 9M FY24Industry likely to have excess capacity for next 2-3 year
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 03:44 PM IST with headline  The Eastern Window: What prompted the US to finally allow the UN vote for ceasefire in Gaza is: 
 Israel has been ignoring US advice about the Gaza situation. HighlightsThe US allowed the UN to pass the ceasefire resolution even as Israel is preparing a major ground assault in Gaza.Netanyahu has been ignoring US advice about the Gaza situation.Traditional allies, the US and Israel, are on a collision course.The US perception of the Muslim world may undergo some change after the latest development
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2024 11:33 PM IST with headline  Oil steadies as markets weigh Russian supply woes is: 
 Front-month Brent crude futures due to expire on Thursday were 12 cents down at $86.63 a barrel by 11:59 EDT (1559 GMT) while U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures was up 13 cents at $82.08. Oil prices were little changed on Tuesday as investors took a more mixed view toward the loss of Russian refinery capacity after recent Ukrainian attacks while a slightly weaker U.S. dollar offered some support.Front-month Brent crude futures due to expire on Thursday were 12 cents down at $86.63 a barrel by 11:59 EDT (1559 GMT) while U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures was up 13 cents at $82.08.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe more actively traded Brent futures for June were down 12 cents at $85.96.Brent rose 1.5% on Monday while WTI gained 1.6% after Russia's government ordered companies to cut output in the second quarter to meet a 9 million barrels per day (bpd) target to comply with pledges to the OPEC+ consumer group.Russia, among the top three global oil producers and one of the largest exporters of oil products, is also contending with a spate of recent attacks on its oil refineries by Ukraine and has mounted its own attacks on Ukrainian energy infrastructure.
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2024 08:50 PM IST with headline  Gold advances on weaker dollar ahead of US inflation test is: 
 Gold advances on weaker dollar ahead of US inflation test Gold prices climbed on Tuesday, buoyed by a weaker U.S. dollar, while investors waited for data due later in the week to reveal underlying inflation trends that will help gauge the Federal Reserve's interest-rate stance.Spot gold rose 0.5%, to $2,182.77 per ounce, by 09:58 a.m. EDT (1358 GMT), having jumped as much as 1.3% earlier in the session. U.S. gold futures for April delivery rose 0.3%, to $2,183.00.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe dollar index slipped 0.1%, making gold cheaper for overseas buyers."Closer to the summer, you're going to see gold go higher just with the expectation of rate cuts, unless the Fed changes stance or makes some announcement that they're taking cuts off the table, which I don't see them doing at this point," said Bob Haberkorn, senior market strategist at RJO Futures.Market focus is on the U.S. Core Personal Consumption Expenditure Price Index data [PCE] due on Friday. [FRX/]
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2024 08:42 PM IST with headline  Reddit shares surge a day after options launch, set to nearly double IPO price is: 
 Reddit shares surge a day after options launch, set to nearly double IPO price Shares of social media platform Reddit jumped 11% on Tuesday, set to extend a strong run from a day earlier following the launch of options on the stock.At current price of $67.5, more than $1 billion was set to be added to the company's market value. The stock was also on track to nearly double its IPO price of $34.Story continues below Advertisement"More bullish investors have bought options in Reddit, which is part of its early stock market success in its first full week of trading," said Jeremy Goldman, senior director of client briefings at Emarketer, formerly Insider Intelligence.The launch of options trading drew bullish bets on the stock on Monday, closing up around 30% and making it the top percentage gainer on the New York Stock Exchange."From my estimates, about 90,000 options have changed hands, possibly more," Goldman added.Current gains could also help surpass the $10 billion valuation Reddit received in a private fundraising round in 2021
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2024 05:45 PM IST with headline  Central bank to limit sharp swings in rupee after slip to record low, traders say is: 
 Central bank to limit sharp swings in rupee after slip to record low, traders say Central bank will continue to curb sharp swings in the rupee, traders said, after it fell to a record low on Friday, spurring speculation the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) may be loosening its grip on the currency.Persistent intervention by the RBI in the foreign exchange market over the past several months had dampened exchange rate volatility.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFriday's sharp decline caught traders by surprise as the rupee fell to an all-time low of 83.43 against the dollar in the closing minutes of domestic trading.While the RBI had intervened earlier in the session, its absence towards the end pushed the rupee to record lows, a senior foreign exchange trader at a state-run bank said.Traders quoted in the story declined to be named because they are not authorised to speak to the media.
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2024 07:08 PM IST with headline  Consumer expenditure data was not shared with Statistics Commission; standing committee kept in the loop is: 
 The HCES – which is crucial to updating macroeconomic indicators such as the consumer price index and establishing a new poverty line – currently in use is the one conducted in 2011-12 (July-June) after the 2017-18 HCES was shelved by the government in late 2019 due to what it termed as “data quality issues” India's statistics ministry, tasked with collecting and disseminating vital economic data, did not share the latest Household Consumer Expenditure Survey (HCES) data with the National Statistical Commission (NSC) before releasing a factsheet on the 2022-23 (August-July) HCES on February 24, according to people aware of the matter.The full report on the survey, the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation's (MoSPI) factsheet said, will be released "subsequently".Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: Demolishing the house that Mahalanobis built"If one looks at the mandate of the NSC, it is all-encompassing. But in practice, it is only an advisory body – to give advice when asked. Thus, NSC does not even know the answers to your question," Rajeeva Laxman Karandikar, chairperson of the NSC, told Moneycontrol when asked about the details of the 2022-23 HCES and when the full survey report will be released.The autonomous NSC, set up in 2006 as per the recommendations of the Rangarajan Commission, is chaired by an eminent statistician and has the status of Minister of State, with the other members at the level of central government secretaries. The NSC's mandate is to "evolve policies, priorities, and standards in statistical matters".
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 06:39 AM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Defence: Making in India for the world is: 
 Representative image Dear Reader,The government’s defence indigenisation programme has revitalised the shares of defence public sector undertakings. Most have re-rated in the past one year. The order books of Bharat Electronics and Hindustan Aeronautics have risen significantly in FY24. The focus on domestic manufacturing is also yielding export orders.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad Over the weekend, Hindustan Aeronautics signed a contract with Guyana Defence Force, Government of Guyana, to supply two Hindustan-228 commuter aircraft. As Indian companies gain manufacturing capabilities, they are pitching their products to overseas customers.In January, Cochin Shipyard received a Rs 500-crore order from a client in Europe taking its total export order book to Rs 2,688 crore. Bharat Electronics already boasts of a sizeable export order book and business. In the December 2023 quarter, the company clocked export revenue of Rs 400 crore.The locally developed Akash weapon system is being pitched for export markets, the execution of which will be done by Bharat Dynamics and Bharat Electronics. As of January, Bharat Dynamics had an export order book of Rs 2,580 crore.
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2024 02:48 PM IST with headline  Chocoholics won’t be the only victims of cocoa’s surge is: 
 Cocoa's troubles were firmly rooted in fundamentals, triggered largely by a series of crop failures in West Africa. (Representative image) In every sustained commodity price rally, there’s a moment when fundamentals — supply, demand, inventories — no longer matter. The cost of the molecules, whether in the form of energy or foodstuffs or metals, stops being a price and becomes just a number. The market ceases to be orderly and becomes unruly.It’s clear that moment has arrived for cocoa. On Monday, cocoa futures in New York closed at $9,649 a ton, gaining nearly 8 percent. In dollar terms, they surged more than $700 on the day — equal to the trading range that in the past it would have taken a year to witness.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFirst, a look at how it started. Initially, cocoa’s troubles were firmly rooted in fundamentals, triggered largely by a series of crop failures in West Africa, the region that typically produces about 75 percent of the world’s supply. There, a combination of aging trees, diseases and bad weather combined to create the largest shortfall seen in the cocoa market in more than six decades.The upshot was a brutal price rally that took cocoa to $6,000 a metric ton by February from $2,500 a year ago, surging above the 1977 record. Facing a massive deficit, the market was doing its work by sending prices high enough to curb consumption and restore the supply-and-demand equilibrium.Since then, however, prices have risen vertically, setting fresh highs almost daily. At the current pace, the $10,000-a-ton threshold could be breached before the Easter holiday starts at the end of the week.
 
The news published on the date March 27, 2024 02:28 AM IST with headline  RBI showing serious commitment to improve governance, transparency in finance companies, banks is: 
 RBI showing serious commitment to improve governance, transparency in finance cos, banks S&P Global Ratings on Tuesday said India's financial system regulator, the RBI, is showing serious commitment to improving governance and transparency in the sector.The recent measures by the RBI will curtail lenders' over-exuberance, enhance compliance culture, and safeguard customers, but the drawback will be higher capital costs for institutions.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRBI's measures include restraining IIFL Finance Ltd and JM Financial Products Ltd from disbursing gold loans and loans against shares, respectively, and asking Paytm Payments Bank Ltd (PPBL) to stop onboarding of new customers.In December 2020, the RBI suspended HDFC Bank from sourcing new credit card customers after repeated technological outages, S&P said.These actions are a departure from the historically nominal financial penalties imposed for breaches, it added.
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2024 01:09 PM IST with headline  The Trump machine: the inner circle preparing for a second term is: 
 - James Politi in WashingtonIn 2016, Donald Trump was the ultimate political outsider. If he wins this year’s election, he will be backed by a group of experienced former officials eager to apply his ideasWhen Donald Trump hosted Viktor Orbán at his Mar-a-Lago resort earlier this month, he lavished praise on the Hungarian prime minister as a “fantastic” leader for Europe. The evening entertainment included a “members-only” concert with tribute bands for the Beatles and Rolling Stones.But i
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2024 12:16 PM IST with headline  China’s EV and solar boom is a capitalist win for communism is: 
 If Chinese solar, wind, battery and EV manufacturers are doing well because of easy credit, it should leave clear fingerprints on their financial statements. There’s a comforting but erroneous explanation for why your solar panels, home battery and electric car are increasingly likely to be made in China.The economy is awash in easy money from state banks; its renewable manufacturers are undercutting rivals everywhere else in the world; ergo, China’s comparative advantage isn’t scale, cost efficiencies or innovative prowess, but the availability of cheap government subsidies.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn the EV industry “everybody has an endless supply of loans and support from the local government,” the Financial Times quoted Jörg Wuttke, former president of the European Union Chamber of Commerce in China, as saying in a recent article.That theory provides a compelling justification for trade restrictions. If Chinese manufacturers are only surviving thanks to a drip feed of government cash, there’s no way for overseas rivals to compete. Best, then, to use tariffs, investigations and other hurdles to exclude their products altogether, and give homegrown competitors a chance.It’s a persuasive narrative because swathes of China’s economy really do run this way. In the middle of the 2010s, all-but-forgotten Dalian Wanda Group Co, Anbang Insurance Group Co, HNA Group Co and Fosun International Ltd. went on a multi-billion-dollar shopping spree for foreign companies. The bursting of that bubble prompted another to inflate in real estate. We’re still seeing the aftereffects in every fresh gloomy headlineabout property developers China Evergrande Group, Country Garden Holdings Co, and China Vanke Co.
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2024 02:34 PM IST with headline  Mumbai is now the billionaire capital of Asia, beats Beijing: Hurun report is: 
 The meteoric rise in India’s exclusive billionaire club was led by Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani ($115 billion) and Adani Group chairman Gautam Adani ($86 billion) India’s financial capital Mumbai has now overtaken Beijing as Asia’s billionaire capital for the first time with 93 members in the exclusive rich club, according to Global Rich List 2024 published by Hurun Research Institute.According to the Shanghai-based institute, New York and London lead the cities with 119 and 97 billionaires, respectively.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMeanwhile, New Delhi also made it to the coveted list for the first time ever."Mumbai was the fastest-growing billionaire capital in the world, adding 26 in the year and taking it to third spot in the world and Asia's billionaire capital. New Delhi broke into the Top 10 for the first time," said the Hurun Global Rich List 2024.The meteoric rise in India’s exclusive billionaire club was led by Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani ($115 billion) and Adani Group chairman Gautam Adani ($86 billion), who was helped by a 33% surge in wealth. Overall, the country has added 94 people to its list, taking the total to 271 ultra-high-net-worth individuals (UHNWI), the report said, adding that it was the highest since 2013. Mumbai alone has contributed 26 to the list.
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2024 11:27 PM IST with headline  S&P ups India growth forecast to 6.8% for FY'25 is: 
 S&P ups India growth forecast to 6.8% for FY'25 S&P Global Ratings on Tuesday raised India's growth forecast for the next financial year to 6.8 per cent, but flagged restrictive interest rates as a dampener for economic growth.The Indian economy is estimated to have clocked a growth of 7.6 per cent in the current fiscal.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn November, last year, the US-based agency had projected India's growth to be 6.4 per cent in 2024-25 fiscal on robust domestic momentum."For Asian emerging market (EM) economies, we generally project robust growth, with India, Indonesia, the Philippines, and Vietnam in the lead," S&P said in its Economic Outlook for the Asia Pacific.In largely domestic demand-led economies such as India, Japan, and Australia, the impact of higher interest rates and inflation on household spending power reduced sequential GDP growth in the second half, S&P said.
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2024 10:09 AM IST with headline  Personal Finance: Three investing pointers every woman needs to know is: 
 Women are afraid of going wrong with their investments – the consequences of their investment backfiring are harsh HighlightsDBS Bank-Crisil surveyed 800 women that showed they are risk averseWomen invest nearly half of their savings in fixed depositsWomen must get professional help in managing financeThey should not ignore equities due to volatile marketsIgnoring equities would mean missing out financial goals due to low return
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2024 09:14 AM IST with headline  How fit is India’s healthcare to handle future pandemics? is: 
 Representative image HighlightsThe ADB finds gaps in readiness to tackle COVID-19 even after one year into the pandemicThe ADB publication’s findings about India are not too encouraging eitherThe Global Health Security Index declined for India between 2019 and 2021In the last couple of years, India has taken several steps to tackle future pandemicsNITI Aayog is working on a programme where it can use ADB data to formulate a strategy to tackle future public health emergenc
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2024 09:11 AM IST with headline  MC Pro Inside Edge: Colgate boss has reason to smile, Cupid heartbreak for TFCI bulls, PSU oilco believers on slippery slope, penny stock promoter’s salvage operation is: 
 Grin and bear itWhen new Colgate India CEO Prabha Narasimhan met up with analysts in December 2022 soon after taking charge, most analysts came back unimpressed by the presentation. Leading brokerages rated the stock a ‘sell’ or ‘hold’, not convinced by the company’s ambitious plans to get more rural folks to brush their teeth at least once a day, and everyone in general to replace their toothbrushes more often. The stock kept crawling higher nevertheless, as som
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2024 07:53 AM IST with headline  RBI likely to hold rates steady until at least July: Poll is: 
 RBI likely to hold rates steady until at least July: Poll The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will keep interest rates unchanged until at least July, a bit longer than the U.S. central bank is expected to do so, on strong growth and still-elevated inflation, according to a firm majority of economists polled by Reuters.India's economy grew a stellar 8.4% in the fourth quarter of 2023, the fastest among major economies. Inflation, which is still close to the upper band of the central bank's 2%-6% target, does not hint at an imminent rate cut.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAll 56 economists in the March 15-22 Reuters poll expected the RBI to hold the repo rate at 6.50% at the conclusion of its April 3-5 meeting.They were, however, divided on when the first cut would come, with nine of 52 saying next quarter, 24 picking the third quarter, 17 saying the fourth quarter and the rest expecting it at a later time. Median forecasts put the rate at 6.25% by the end of September and 6.00% at the end of this year."The combination of headline inflation remaining above 5% and the strong Q4 GDP figures will likely leave Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) members cautious about cutting rates too soon," said Alexandra Hermann, a lead economist at Oxford Economics.
 
The news published on the date March 25, 2024 11:56 PM IST with headline  Oil up on supply concerns about Russian output cuts, geopolitical tensions is: 
 Oil up on supply concerns about Russian output cuts, geopolitical tensions Oil prices increased on Monday as orders from the Russian government to curb oil output, and attacks on energy infrastructure in both Russia and Ukraine offset the United Nation's demand for a ceasefire in Gaza.Brent crude futures climbed $1.05, or 1.23%, to $86.48 a barrel by 1404 EDT (1806 GMT). U.S. crude futures gained $1.10, or 1.36%, to $81.73.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBoth benchmarks have risen steadily this year, with Brent up nearly 11% and WTI up about 12.5% by Friday's close, on expectations that interest rates in major economies will come down by the summer, and geopolitical tensions in eastern Europe and the Middle East.Moscow, meanwhile, has ordered companies to reduce oil output in the second quarter to meet a production target of 9 million barrels per day (bpd) by the end of June, in line with its pledges to the producer group OPEC+, three industry sources said on Monday."Russia is committed to the OPEC+ cuts. They are looking beyond the current supply and demand fundamentals and looking at unity with OPEC+, as well as the risk of a bigger price shock further down the road," said Phil Flynn, analyst at Price Futures Group.
 
The news published on the date March 25, 2024 11:34 PM IST with headline  Outflows from Grayscale bitcoin ETF hit $1.9 billion in single week is: 
 Outflows from Grayscale bitcoin ETF hit $1.9 billion in single week Grayscale Bitcoin Trust recorded $1.9 billion in outflows last week, tipping the group of U.S. spot bitcoin exchange-traded funds (ETFs) into net outflows for the week ending March 22, according to data from BitMEX Research.While there has been buying interest in new funds from BlackRock, Fidelity Investments and others since the U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission approved the new cryptocurrency ETFs in January, it was not enough to offset selling by Grayscale holders last week, the data showed.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdInflows to the other nine ETFs launched at the same time as Grayscale's fund converted also slowed last week as the price of bitcoin was muted compared with highs it notched earlier this month.Grayscale's outflows have been due to fees significantly higher than those of its rivals, as well as selling by bankruptcy trustees, analysts said.Bryan Armour, an ETF analyst at Morningstar said that Grayscale opted to keep the management fee on its converted ETF at 1.5%, compared with 0.25% for the BlackRock fund and even lower, including fee waivers, at rivals.
 
The news published on the date March 25, 2024 07:03 PM IST with headline  Stocks flat, oil climbs as dollar cornered by yen and yuan is: 
 Stocks flat, oil climbs as dollar cornered by yen and yuan Stock markets took a breather on Monday from their record highs of recent sessions as investors looked to an abbreviated trading week, capped by key U.S. inflation data on Friday, due to the impending Easter holiday.U.S. stock index futures were slightly weaker.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMarket participants are hoping that Friday's U.S. prices data will back investor bets for a June interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve.Boeing Co was a focus on Wall Street after the planemaker said its CEO Dave Calhoun would step down by year-end amid a sprawling safety crisis.Oil benchmark Brent hovered close to $86 a barrel as hostilities intensified in the Middle East, and between Russia and Ukraine, with energy infrastructure targeted in the two-year old war.
 
The news published on the date March 25, 2024 06:53 PM IST with headline  Dollar dips as Japan and China fortify their currencies is: 
 Dollar dips as Japan and China fortify their currencies The dollar slipped on Monday, with the threat of currency intervention from Japanese authorities and a government-driven rally in China's yuan weighing on the U.S. currency.The Japanese yen was around 0.1% higher and last stood at 151.29 per dollar, having bottomed at a four-month trough of 151.86 last week that left it within striking distance of a 32-year low near 152 per dollar hit in 2022.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA rise in the yen helped push the dollar index down 0.16% to 104.26, after a weekly gain of nearly 1% last week.Japan's top currency diplomat said on Monday the yen's weakness did not reflect fundamentals, adding to the rhetoric of government officials who have stepped up warnings in recent days over the currency's decline.The yen has dropped despite the Bank of Japan hiking interest rates out of negative territory last week. Traders think rates in Japan will remain low for some time and therefore the big interest rate gap with the U.S. will stay in place, boosting the appeal of the dollar.
 
The news published on the date March 25, 2024 06:01 PM IST with headline  Gold firms as traders position for US data is: 
 Gold firms as traders position for US data Gold prices firmed on Monday as investors positioned for key economic data and comments from Federal Reserve officials this week for further confirmation on the interest rate cuts signalled by the U.S. central bank.Spot gold was up 0.3% at $2,171.42 per ounce, as of 1116 GMT, while silver rose 0.3% to $24.73.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdU.S. gold futures climbed 0.6% to $2,172.50.The weekly initial jobless claims print due on Thursday and the U.S. core personal consumption expenditure (PCE) price index data on Friday are on investors' radar. The market's reaction to the PCE data may only be seen next week on account of the Good Friday holiday."It (U.S. inflation readings) will have a significant impact. Any lower-than-expected PCE number will lead to a weaker dollar and higher gold prices and vice versa," said Kunal Shah, head of research, Nirmal Bang Commodities, Mumbai. [USD/]
 
The news published on the date March 25, 2024 05:15 PM IST with headline  Oil benchmark Brent nears $86 on heightened supply concerns is: 
 Oil benchmark Brent nears $86 on heightened supply concerns Oil benchmark Brent hovered close to $86 a barrel on Monday as hostilities intensified between Russia and Ukraine and in the Middle East.Brent crude futures climbed 40 cents to $85.83 a barrel by 1124 GMT while U.S. crude futures also gained 40 cents to $81.03.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBoth benchmarks have risen steadily this year, with Brent up nearly 11% and WTI about 12.5% by Friday's close.The upward trajectory is linked to belief that a sticky recession is being fought off, with interest rates in major economies expected to fall by the summer, while the OPEC+ group of oil producers has extended supply curbs into the second quarter.Concerns over global oil supply are being heightened, meanwhile, by attacks on Russian energy facilities and Ukrainian energy infrastructure as well as fading hopes of a ceasefire in the Israel-Hamas conflict, said Hiroyuki Kikukawa, president of NS Trading, a unit of Nissan Securities.
 
The news published on the date March 25, 2024 09:25 AM IST with headline  How Indian growth story is under attack from the West is: 
 The intensity and frequency of such attempts are going to grow further as India intends to write its own growth story (Sanghnomics is a weekly column that tracks down and demystifies the economic world view of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and organisations inspired by its ideology.)There are two developments that have taken place in the international stage that indicate the flawed framework of the West in the context of evaluating the Indian success story. These two developments are the release of the world happiness report and an article in the international publication ‘The Economist’.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWorld Happiness IndexThis index ranks countries worldwide on the Happiness index. This index is part of the World Happiness Report. This report is prepared jointly by Gallup, the Oxford Wellbeing Research Centre, the UN Sustainable Development Solutions Network, and the WHR’s Editorial Board. The report is produced under the editorial control of the WHR Editorial Board.The concept of Happiness as a measure of development and growth was pioneered by Bhutan. The criterion was altogether different at that time. And then the West took over and did with this concept as it does to most of the things that it has hijacked from the other parts of the world. The West has manipulated this criterion in such a way that the outcome can be termed as ‘ridiculous’. This year’s report reflects how forced conclusions are flaunted through this report to deflate India's success story. When the west couldn’t counter India's growth story through GDP numbers and other standard economic statistics, it started using questionable concepts like ‘Happiness Index’.
 
The news published on the date March 23, 2024 12:58 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Weekender | Roaring Twenties? is: 
 The successful soft-landing of the global economy after the pandemic and euphoric markets have led many to compare this decade with that of the 1920s Dear Reader,If the Federal Open Market Committee’s median estimate of US GDP growth as well as core inflation in Personal Consumption Expenditure (PCE) have been revised higher for 2024 and the median unemployment rate revised lower, what is the Fed signalling by sticking to its earlier prediction of a cumulative 75 basis points worth of rate cuts this year? The markets interpreted it to mean that the Fed is comfortable with inflation remaining higher for longer and lost no time in celebrating this wonderful discovery.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAs this FT story (free to read for Moneycontrol Pro subscribers) underlines, the message is that strong US economic growth will not change the central bank’s script to reduce borrowing costs substantially this year. Gold prices promptly made new highs. The icing on the cake was provided by Fed chair Powell’s message that the central bank is close to start tapering its quantitative tightening programme. The upshot: The Chicago Fed’s Adjusted National Financial Conditions Index now indicates looser financial conditions than those prevailing in February 2022, before the Fed embarked on its rate increases.It gets even better. The UK inflation is now at its lowest in almost two and a half years and Bank of England Governor Andrew Bailey said Britain is moving in the right direction to start cutting rates. And, with inflation coming down into its target range, the Swiss central bank effected a surprise rate cut this week. Small wonder that many analysts are now talking of a global rate cutting cycle getting started.And best of all, it’s happening when global growth is picking up. The latest Flash or advance PMIs for March show robust growth. On the US Flash PMI, Chris Williamson, chief business economist at S&P Global, said, “The survey data point to another quarter of robust GDP growth accompanied by sustained hiring as companies continue to report new order growth.’’ On the UK PMI, he said, “A further robust expansion of business activity ended the economy’s best quarter since the second quarter of last year.”
 
The news published on the date March 22, 2024 06:14 PM IST with headline  The Reading List: March 23, 2024 is: 
 As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. In a world strapped for time, we thought you may find it useful to have a selection of articles we read this past week. As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. Occasionally, we may stray from these subjects.These links may be from external websites we frequent o
 
The news published on the date March 22, 2024 04:57 PM IST with headline  Business in the Week Ahead (March 25-29, 2024) is: 
 A list of important data points to watch out next week. Indian Benchmark equity indices have been on the up in tandem with a global market rally after the US Federal Reserve's slightly hawkish stance comforted investors worrying about rate hikes getting kicked down the road. But news of Accenture cutting its revenue guidance due to an uncertain economic environment hit the IT sector dragging the markets down briefly. It later recovered with gains in financial services, automobile, and healthcare stocks.Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services,
 
The news published on the date March 22, 2024 03:49 PM IST with headline  Is Egypt ready for its next energy crisis?  is: 
 The issue isn't cash, it's execution. (Source: Bloomberg/Getty Images) It’s amazing the difference that $35 billion can make.Go back to the start of this year, and Egypt — home to 105 million people, and one of the world’s great crossroads of culture and trade — seemed to be teetering on the brink. Interest rates that fell as low as 8.25 percent two years earlier were surging toward their current 27.25 percent. Hot money that had temporarily plugged the country’s persistent trade deficit was stampeding for the exits, draining the central bank’s foreign exchange reserves.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSuddenly, things are looking far more healthy. A $35 billion deal that involves the United Arab Emirates underwriting a vast property development on the Mediterranean coast has revived animal spirits, as Bloomberg News wrote this week. That spend has given other donors the confidence to join in recent days: The International Monetary Fund and World Bank have promised to contribute a combined $14 billion, while the European Union will add about $8 billion in aid, loans and grants.All this cash does far too little to address the root cause of the problem, though. Like several other major emerging economies with shaky currencies, Egypt suffers from a serious energy deficit that puts a brake on its ability to grow. Unless more money is dedicated to bringing renewable investment up to the level of its neighbors, it won’t be long before it burns through the latest cash infusion.Petroleum has overtaken cereals as Egypt’s biggest import category, accounting for more than 17 percent of the gross bill in 2022. Even booming prices for gas from offshore fields in the Mediterranean have barely been sufficient to turn it into a net exporter of hydrocarbons. Of the 6.2 billion cubic feet of gas produced last year, 5.9 billion cu ft was consumed at home, more than half of it to produce heavily-subsidised electricity.
 
The news published on the date March 23, 2024 09:39 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Will Lilliput Land show its consumption power again? is: 
 Consumption would still account for more than half of the country’s gross domestic product. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndia’s consumption story is unlike any other: too promising to ignore, but too tricky to deal with. The average Indian consumer has always been on the list of top targets for international businesses. This explains why brands ranging from Apple to Ikea count India as a key market even when private consumption expenditure is expected to be a mere 3 percent in FY24.Even at its worst, consumption would still account for more than half of the country’s gross domestic product. Without a sustained growth in consumption, there is little motivation for businesses to invest and engage in private capital expenditure. After all, if you are not sure of a rise in demand for bread, you would not attempt to bake more.This is a point that HSBC analysts make in their report that addresses the current divergence between investment and consumption growth. The impressive gross domestic product (GDP) expected in FY24 (which the Reserve Bank of India hopes to be near 8 percent) is driven by investments, something that delights economists. Investment-led growth is said to reflect confidence in the consumption story. HSBC analysts believe that the third quarter GDP growth understates India’s consumption expansion and perhaps overstates investment growth. Our Chart of the Day captures this divergence and explains HSBC’s points. “Historically, investment has never climbed sustainably as a percentage of GDP while consumption falls. After all, it is the same exuberance that drives both. And in the pecking order of growth, higher consumption typically kicks in first, giving confidence to investors, who, over time, add to capacity by investing,” the HSBC report said.
 
The news published on the date March 22, 2024 06:14 PM IST with headline  India looking to Africa for critical minerals is: 
 India looking to Africa for critical minerals India is looking to Africa for minerals such as copper, cobalt and other critical minerals, while also engaging with Australia for lithium blocks, said V.L. Kantha Rao, secretary of mines, on the sidelines of an industry event on Friday."In Africa, we are exploring countries like Zambia, Namibia, Congo, and Ghana for critical minerals," he added.Story continues below AdvertisementIndia is preparing rules for the auction of offshore mineral blocks with 10 blocks ready, Rao said, adding the country aims to begin auctions this year.India will also announce the results of the first tranche of critical mineral blocks in 10 days, he said
 
The news published on the date March 22, 2024 01:08 PM IST with headline  Britain is a big tent, not a narrow tabernacle is: 
 Vaughan Gething is announced as the fifth First Minister of Wales at the Cardiff University Spark building on March 16, 2024, in Cardiff, Wales. (Source: Bloomberg/Getty Images Europe) Britain is an ethnic assimilation superpower.You could call it a diversity royal flush. With the ascension of Zambian-born Vaughan Gething as Welsh Labour leader and first minister-elect, all senior elected offices in the British Isles are held by ethnic minorities: the prime minister, Rishi Sunak is, by ethnic origin, Hindu- Punjabi; Scotland’s first minister, Humza Yousaf, is first-generation Pakistani-Punjabi; and the mayor of the global city-state that is London, Sadiq Khan, is of Pakistani heritage. It's Labour Party leader, and the next likely prime minister, Keir Starmer, who stands out as a white man with a knighthood.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRecent headlines have presented a depressing portrait of Britain as a hotbed of racism. George Galloway won the Rochdale by-election for the Workers Party by playing on racial tensions. Lee Anderson first accused Mayor Khan of falling under the control of Islamists and then, having lost the Conservative whip, defected to Reform, saying that he wants his country back. The Conservative government is still trying to pass legislation to make it easier to send undocumented migrants to Rwanda. And it emerged that Frank Hester — a major Conservative donor to the tune of £10 million ($13 million) — had said that looking at Diane Abbott (Britain's first Black Member of Parliament) makes you “want to hate all black women," and said that she "should be shot." (Hester has since apologised.)Look beneath these dismal reports, however, and a much more optimisticpicture emerges. A higher share of the population was born outside the country than is the case in the US, the classic nation of immigrants: In the UK, it’s 10 million people, or a sixth of the population. These people come from a large (and growing) number of nations — from those in eastern Europe as well as the Indian subcontinent and Africa — and include more women than men. They scatter across the country — hence Gething in Wales and Yousaf in Scotland, and hence the fact that your columnist can get excellent curries in rural Hampshire.The tale of immigration now is largely one of upward mobility rather than stasis and alienation. Foreign-born men have a slightly higher employment rate than British-born residents (though foreign-born women have a lower rate). Ethnic Chinese and Indians outperform Whites in education, and, over the past two decades, Bangladeshis in England have gone from performing significantly worse than White British in state exams to achieving significantly better.
 
The news published on the date March 22, 2024 12:24 PM IST with headline  India to announce results of first critical minerals auction in 10 days is: 
 India to announce results of first critical minerals auction in 10 days India will announce results of the first tranche of 20 critical mineral blocks in 10 days, Secretary of Mines, V.L. Kantha Rao said on Friday.The government also hopes to kick off offshore mining this year, Rao added
 
The news published on the date March 22, 2024 10:05 AM IST with headline  The Red Sea crisis will hurt the global economy if it continues much longer is: 
 - HighlightsTrade through the Suez Canal had dropped 50 percent in the first two months of the year from a year earlierMost of the disruption, thus far, has occurred during Europe’s off-peak season, and the impact could worsen as spring and summer set inBesides shipping costs, insurance costs have risen significantly. War risk premiums are up by nearly 1 percentTogether with the risk of higher crude prices owing to geopolitical tensions, incremental spreads for oil marketing companies i
 
The news published on the date March 22, 2024 08:46 AM IST with headline  The anatomy of inflation is: 
 - HighlightsThe RBI has reiterated its commitment to bring down inflation to 4 percent targetWith CPI inflation still above target, the RBI is cautious on policy easingInflation excluding volatile vegetables is far lower at 3.77 percent in FebruaryHeadline inflation is likely to converge down to core inflation levelThere is scope to cut policy rates by 50-100 basis points, which will mostly come in second half of FY2
 
The news published on the date March 22, 2024 08:33 AM IST with headline  Will the February export optimism continue? is: 
 Representative image HighlightsGoods exports grow 11.86 percent YoY in FebruaryThis is the best export show in the current financial year so farNew Delhi mandarins and industry mavens are predicting better days ahead for goods exportsHowever, 11-month goods exports in FY 2023-24 still lag behind last year’s numbersRed Sea and Panama Canal disruptions can queer the export pitch, going forwardIndia needs to encourage MSME exports and explore new markets to grow its share in world trad
 
The news published on the date March 22, 2024 08:16 AM IST with headline  MC Pro Inside Edge: HNIs try to recall 'Khul ja sim sim', algo trading firms in the soup, Big Pharma’s big worry, Zomato bulls make quiet exit is: 
 - Golden handcuffIn the Arabian Nights tale Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves, Ali’s brother gets trapped inside the cave of riches because he is unable to recall the magic phrase needed to open the cave.(image) Many HNIs who had enthusiastically invested in small caps as part of large groups seem to be in a similar situation. Current prices are still significantly above their purchase price. But the problem is that they cannot sell unless the group leade
 
The news published on the date March 22, 2024 08:00 AM IST with headline  Chart of the Day: Is GDP data understating consumption growth? is: 
 Investment and consumption diverge (image) Will investment-consumption gap reduce?The divergence in India’s investment growth and private consumption growth in the past two years has been both a source of comfort and unease. A sustained increase in investment is the holy grail when it comes to a stable and sustained economic growth. When businesses invest and put up factories and shops, it generates employment and increases income which in turn spurs consumption over the medium term. Thi
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2024 05:07 PM IST with headline  America's waning naval dominance and China’s surge is a worry  is: 
 Since 1945, the US Navy has patrolled the oceans as part of its project to ensure a secure and prosperous America by promoting a secure and prosperous world. The Houthis are sinking ships and killing sailors. China is waging a persistent campaign to make the South China Sea its own private lake. Russia is claiming international waters in the Arctic Ocean. The war in Ukraine has made the Black Sea a shooting gallery.The flashpoints are scattered, but the fundamental crisis is the same. Freedom of navigation is a hallmark of America’s liberal international order; it is a pillar of the relative peace and tremendous prosperity humanity has achieved. And now, as its defenders grow weaker and its challengers become more assertive, it is being threatened in regions around the globe.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdLike the dominance of democracy or the absence of great-power war, freedom of navigation is one of those features of the modern world that we often take for granted because we forget how exceptional it really is. For most of history, the seas were neither safe nor free. Pirates and privateers seized ships and stifled commerce. Nations protected their own commerce and no one else’s. In his famous treatise Mare Liberum, published in 1609, Hugo Grotius may have argued that no country owned the oceans. The behaviour of a great many states suggested they thought otherwise.This really changed only with the ascendancy of the Anglo-American sea powers from the 18th century onward. In wartime, Britain’s Royal Navy conducted blockades that were the terror of its enemies and the neutrals that traded with them — including the United States. In peacetime, Britain’s interest in securing trade routes that connected a far-flung empire made the seas safer for others as well. And when Britannia’s rule faltered, amid the global wars of the 20th century, Washington stepped in.The US originally built its navy in part to shield its vessels from piratical attacks. Depredations by German submarines helped bring America into both world wars. And since 1945, the US Navy has patrolled the oceans as part of its project to ensure a secure and prosperous America by promoting a secure and prosperous world. When freedom of navigation has been violently challenged, the US has fought sharp conflicts — against Iran in the 1980s, for example, and against the Houthis today — to make sure those challenges fail.
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2024 06:46 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Fed’s last-mile quandary is no worry for markets is: 
 The Fed not only upgraded its GDP forecasts for 2024, but also calmed naysayers on rate cuts. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdGlobal markets cheered Fed chair Jay Powell’s narrative that stronger-than-expected economic growth in the US and a strong labour market would not stop the central bank from cutting rates in 2024. Instead, he said the central bank would stick to the dot-plot of three rate cuts in the year that would lower rates by 0.75 percentage points from the present 23-year high of 5.25-5.5 percent.For the near term, economists seem to have put aside concerns about growth. Sustained growth in the US economy, an improving milieu in Europe, a strong recovery in Japan, and China bottoming out turned investors bullish on global markets. The Fed not only upgraded its gross domestic product (GDP) forecasts for 2024, but also calmed naysayers on rate cuts with nine officials (versus six in the December meet) agreeing to rate cuts soon.The question, however, is whether Powell is being too optimistic. Some economists point out that after initially bringing down inflation, the last mile would be a bumpy and challenging road.
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2024 11:40 PM IST with headline  Nike needs a comeback. Adidas just wrote the playbook is: 
 For Nike, there is the extra burden of regaining its historic prowess in sports clothing. When Nike Inc reports its third-quarter earnings on Thursday, investors will be looking for signs that the world’s biggest sportswear company is beating back a growing field of challengers.Nike Chief Executive Officer John Donahoe should learn from his counterpart at Adidas AG, Bjorn Gulden, whose efforts to energise the company following its costly divorce from Kanye West in 2022 are starting to pay off.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFor years, Nike and Adidas were able to serve customers demanding clothing to play sport in as well as those following fashion trends. Now they face rivals on all fronts, from On Holding AG and Deckers Outdoor Corp.’s Hoka, in running, to Lululemon Athletica Inc. in athleisure and Amer Sports Inc.’s Arc’teryx in premium performance and lifestyle wear. This year, challenger brands are set to expand revenue by an average of 17 percent, almost three times the incumbents’ estimated 6 percent, according to analysts at RBC Capital Markets.Amid these incursions, the giants look increasingly like mid-market fashion brands, so they must have their fingers on the pulse of the latest trends. For Nike, there is the extra burden of regaining its historic prowess in sports clothing.Both Nike and Adidas have become too reliant on products that burn bright and then fade, with nothing to take their place. In the case of Nike it has primarily relied on its retro sneakers led by the Air Jordan 1 to rally sales. Over the past decade, Adidas has cycled through the Stan Smith sneaker, the Yeezy collaboration with Ye and now its retro Terrace styles.
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2024 07:45 PM IST with headline  Indian lenders to chase corporate bonds as new investment rules kick in, treasury officials say is: 
 Indian lenders to chase corporate bonds as new investment rules kick in, treasury officials say Indian banks will gravitate towards corporate bonds they intend to hold until maturity once new central bank rules kick in next month, as yields are currently elevated and the investments would be spared from market-linked markdowns, treasury officials said.From April 1, corporate bond investments will be allowed under held-to-maturity (HTM) category for the first time, provided the fair value is disclosed and investments protected from mark-to-market volatility, according to revised Reserve Bank of India rules.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdCurrently banks can hold up to 23% of their deposits under HTM as investments in government bonds and state debt, which will be reduced in phases from April.However, the current yield spread of more than 50 basis points in favour of corporate bonds makes them an attractive investment."From April, for the HTM portfolios, the AAA-rated bonds especially of state-run companies are an attractive bet as they are yielding higher than the state bonds and do not carry much credit risk," VRC Reddy, treasury head at Karur Vysya Bank, said.
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2024 12:38 PM IST with headline  Government preparing for big-bang union budget in July is: 
 PM Narendra Modi Confident of coming back to power after the Lok Sabha elections, the Narendra Modi-led BJP government is preparing for a big-bang July union budget, with major announcements lined up.“India is the pilot that will take the global flight to new heights in the next five years, which would be years of unprecedented growth and prosperity. That is Modi’s guarantee,” said Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the Network18 Rising Bharat Summit on March 20.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe government is preparing a roadmap for the next 25 years, and drawing up plans for the first 100 days of the BJP’s third term in power, Modi added.“The government did not use its gunpowder in the interim union budget. This government is assured that they are coming back to power. The July union budget will be a big-bang affair. People should be ready for a whole lot of announcements,” a senior government official told Moneycontrol.The new government will announce the union budget for the full year in July 2024. On February 1 this year, the government announced the interim budget till the new government comes in place.
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2024 12:33 PM IST with headline  The mutual fund at 100: Is it becoming obsolete? is: 
 - Brooke Masters and Will Schmitt in New York, Madison Darbyshire in Miami and Harriet Agnew in LondonThey enabled millions to invest in the stock market but newer, nimbler products are reshaping asset managementOne hundred years ago on Thursday, Edward Leffler, a former door-to-door salesman of pots and pans, revolutionised financial markets. His invention, the open-ended mutual fund, allowed retail customers to buy into a diversified portfolio of stocks and be confident that they would get a fai
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2024 11:55 AM IST with headline  Bullish Jay Powell sticks to Federal Reserve’s rate-cutting script is: 
 Jay Powell downplayed the risks that the US’s persistently hot labour market would hinder the inflation fight. Claire Jones in Washington and George Steer in LondonFederal Reserve officials unleashed their optimism on Wednesday, unveiling projections for faster than expected US economic growth this year while still leaving room to cut interest rates three times.It was a moment of vindication for the Federal Open Market Committee, whose rosy outlook in December had defied more gloomy expectations from economists.A combination of strong economic growth, low unemployment and falling inflation is historically rare, but Jay Powell’s Fe
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2024 11:25 AM IST with headline  India's coal import rises to 212 MT in April-January period is: 
 India's coal import rises to 212 MT in April-January period The country registered a marginal rise of 1.65 per cent in coal imports to 212.24 Million Tonnes (MT) in the April-January period of the ongoing fiscal, over the year-ago period.India's coal import was 208.78 MT in the corresponding period of the previous fiscal, according to data compiled by mjunction services ltd.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Admjunction services ltd is a B2B e-commerce platform.During the April-January period of the current fiscal, the volume of non-coking coal imports was 136.47 MT, slightly lower than 136.90 MT imported during the same period last financial year, according to the data.Coking coal import was at 47.32 MT during the April-January 2023-24, higher than 46.09 MT recorded in the April-January period of FY23.
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2024 10:59 AM IST with headline  Infra projects deserve opportunities for refinancing. Will RBI relax its NPA policy? is: 
 The aim was to keep the banking sector safe from potent NPAs. Banks were robbed of safe lending opportunities in infrastructure. Infrastructure building has been one of the top agendas of the Narendra Modi government. And if Modi returns to power for a third term, as is widely expected, he should set sight on the next-generation infrastructure building, which will be costlier than ever.The density of expressways should see a quantum jump. Railway modernisation is in its early days. India deserves a network of freight (DFC) and high-speed rail corridors. Most important of all, Indian cities are ugly and inefficient. There should be a complete makeover of urban infrastructure.Ideally, that should set the stage for private-public-partnership (PPP), which is a global choice for big-ticket infra-building. However, such options are limited to India in the absence of a long-term refinance ecosystem and regulatory framework. Together, they are crucial for finance risk mitigation.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdNo EcosystemIn 2019, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) dismantled the refinance options in infrastructure and imposed strict non-performing asset (NPA) provisioning norms, thereby removing every prospect for extending the repayment period.The problem was highlighted by Subhendu Moitra, founder-director of Coeus Advisors at a podcast with this author.Worldwide, large infrastructure projects (like the $13 billion Mumbai-Ahmedabad high speed rail project) enjoy long concession periods. This is to keep the user charges low and negotiate the revenue-related uncertainties.‘Concession’ indicates the period during which a build-own-transfer (BOT) project will remain under the control of the private investor, who in turn raises finance from the lending agencies.The undersea Channel Tunnel between the UK and France has a concession period of 100 years. The project is yet to achieve its target for train passenger traffic.Such uncertainties discourage financial institutions from taking long-term exposure to infrastructure. The problem is solved by refinancing options. Over the past three decades, nearly 200 lenders entered and/or exited the project.India never had such an ecosystem. This is partly because India hadn't seen such in the past. And, partly due to the "conservative" nature of the central bank.Until a decade ago, Indian banks used to offer project finance for a maximum of 10 years. The concession period was mostly limited to 15 years. Together they created the perfect recipe for even quality infrastructure projects to turn NPAs.The problem took a serious turn during the Manmohan Singh rule (2004-2014). The rush to build thermal power stations and award BOT projects in roads translated into piling up of NPAs in both state-owned and private banks.Power plants were affected due to the coal crisis and the associated uncertainty over revenue generation. BOT highway projects became unviable due to implementation delays. The situation went to such a pass that banks stopped financing the infrastructure sector.During his tenure as RBI governor (2013-2016), noted economist Raghuram Rajan tried to solve the structural end of the problem by introducing refinance solutions both for new and existing infra projects.The 5/25 scheme, introduced in 2014, offered to refinance over 30 years to new projects. A separate scheme was introduced for refinance in existing projects, subject to rating of repayment capacity.In a knee-jerk reaction after the IL&FS debacle in 2018, RBI scrapped refinance schemes. The aim was to keep the banking sector safe from potent NPAs. Banks were robbed of safe lending opportunities in infrastructure.Only PSU LendingIndian private banks have not returned to the infra space. Foreign banks were never there and they would not enter the scene till the ecosystem was in place. To let the juggernaut move, the Modi government resorted to a self-financing model.BOT is replaced by the hybrid annuity model (HAM) on highways. PSU banks have been offering long-term loans to government entities, like the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), which monetises completed sections through Investment Trusts (InvIT).This is a good model but not without limitations.First, the infra space became heavily dependent on select state-owned lenders like the State Bank of India (SBI). If there is no fresh fund flow, these lenders have to block huge resources in long-term assets without an exit clause. That is risky.Secondly, InvITs manage the risk by investing in many smaller projects. For large projects, there is no alternative to BOT. And, for big-ticket projects, we need foreign lenders.Refinance is one option to make that happen. The other one is to create the regulatory framework. India has regulators in ports, airports and power; but not in road and rail.A road or rail contractor should approach only the contracting authority for dispute settlement. How fair is that? Should any private lender, Indian or foreign, agree to finance in this space?Highways minister Nitin Gadkari tried to solve the problem by creating a committee of independent experts. But NHAI reserves the right to go to court if the award goes against it. That is insane.Pratim Ranjan Bose is an independent columnist, researcher, and consultant. His X handle is @pratimbose. Views are personal, and do not represent the stand of this publication
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2024 11:33 AM IST with headline  Flash composite PMI rises to 61.3 in Mar, manufacturing index highest since Feb 2008 is: 
 India’s services Purchasing Managers’ Index has been above the crucial level of 50 for 32 months in a row. India's HSBC flash manufacturing Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) surged to 59.2 in March from 56.9 in February, data released by S&P Global on March 21 showed.At 59.2, the manufacturing PMI is at its highest since February 2008, when it had come in at 59.5, and above the key level of 50 - which separates expansion in activity from contraction - for the 33rd month in a row.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe flash services PMI edged down for the second month in a row to 60.3 from 60.6 in February. However, it could not stop the flash composite PMI rising to an eight-month high of 61.3, up from 60.6 last month. Both the services and composite PMIs are above the level of 50 for the 32nd consecutive month.The flash PMI for India was launched earlier this year in January and is released around a week before the final number. The final March manufacturing PMI for India will be released on April 2, while the services and composite PMIs will be released on April 4.
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2024 10:15 AM IST with headline  The Green Pivot | Sustainable finance is a huge opportunity for the BFSI industry is: 
 Regulatory and market developments on ESG in South Asia pose various challenges – particularly for BFSI entities. Highlights:Many South Asian countries are progressively developing and strengthening regulatory frameworks for ESG integrationThe mobilisation of finance needed for this climate-aligned development across the subcontinent presents a significant opportunity for Banks to enhance sustainable finance strategiesRegulatory and market developments on ESG in South Asia pose various challenges – particularly for BFSI entitiesBFSI institutions can embrace sustainability reporting and compliance, while undertaking sustainable finance project
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2024 09:21 AM IST with headline  Odisha in Transformation: Innovations in public transport raises hopes of a new dawn is: 
 The government of Odisha must be commended for this focus on reliable public transportation. Odisha is going through a steady transformation on many socio-economic fronts. One of these which is potentially impactful is public transportation. There are two major initiatives with an urban and rural focus respectively. The urban initiative operates under a Special Purpose Vehicle, called Capital Region Urban Transport (CRUT), while the rural initiative has been launched under the Location Accessible Multimodal Initiative (LAccMI) scheme.The primary objective of CRUT is to ‘provide safe, reliable, accessible, user-friendly and sustainable public transport to the city and further setting up a mechanism to deliver public transport that keeps up the pace with demand’. The objective of the LAccMI scheme is to ‘provide multi-modal public transport connectivity for the Gram Panchayats (GPs), Block Headquarters (HQ), District HQ along with the connectivity to major economic hubs, educational and medical hubs, and transport nodes across the state’.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdCRUT: Reviving Flagging Urban TransportCRUT had its birth on May 4, 2018, taking over the then Bhubaneswar Puri Transport Services Limited (BPTSL). Services under BPTSL had slowly dwindled from a 150 sized fleet with 50,000 daily ridership in 2010 to a fleet of 25 with a daily ridership of 7,000 in 2018. BPTSL operated a Public Private Partnership (PPP) under a net cost contract model, in which the private bus operator was responsible for operating the bus with a driver and conductor and collected all the revenue.The operator paid BPTSL a monthly route authorisation fee and shared 20 percent of non-fare box revenues. The operator, over a period, focused more on the profitable routes and exited from the non-profitable ones. There was nothing in the system to ensure a long-term perspective nor oversight and control by the authority.
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2024 09:09 AM IST with headline  HDR report: India has high inequality, but that doesn’t matter is: 
 Inequality in life expectancy is far starker than other types of inequality, since it measures the difference in people’s lifespans based on their position in the social ladder HighlightsThe UN Development Programme’s Human Development Report for 2023-24 says the top 1 percent of Indians have 21.7 percent of the nation’s incomeThat is higher than the share of the top 1 percent in most countriesInequality in life expectancy too is high in IndiaThe HDR report says that among 60 countries surveyed, India is a country where most people believe inequality is fair, regardless of whether it stems from merit or notThis belief lowers demand for redistributionI
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2024 08:39 AM IST with headline  Higher incentives for thermal power plants a boon for NTPC is: 
 Thermal power plant HighlightsRegulated return hiked for new hydro projects with storage capacitiesIncentives raised for thermal electricity produced during peak and non-peak hoursOlder power plants now eligible for incentives at lower utilisation levelsWhile new norms will benefit NTPC and NHPC, the stocks have already re-rate
 
The news published on the date March 21, 2024 02:13 PM IST with headline  Fed policy: What should Indian investors do as US soft landing plays out? is: 
 What is in for Indian investors as the uncertainty remains for rate cuts? Highlights - Quarterly performance largely backed by improved realisations - Medium-term triggers China plus and protectionist measures for tyre industry - Valuations not inexpensive; but improved medium-term outlook HighlightsFed pauses, but rate cut projections for 2024 remain intactIndicates moderation in the pace of rate easing cycle in 2026FII inflows may remain sideways due to policy uncertaintyDuring correction, focus on sectors with demand/policy push tailwind
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2024 03:06 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Oil market heats up is: 
 The surge in oil prices brings the threat of rising inflation. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOil prices have surged to a 4-month high, with analysts anticipating a potential crossing of the $90 per barrel threshold, buoyed by a convergence of multiple factors favouring a bullish outlook for oil.Both benchmark oil prices have surpassed the $86 per barrel mark, marking a significant uptick. This recent rally follows intensified attacks by Ukraine on Russian oil infrastructure, specifically targeting at least seven refineries with drones this month. These attacks have resulted in the shutdown of approximately 7 percent of Russian refining capacity, equivalent to about 370,500 barrels per day.Energy experts predict that the refinery closures will prompt Russia to ramp up oil exports through its western ports in March by nearly 200,000 barrels per day, reaching around 2.15 million barrels per day.
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2024 04:52 PM IST with headline  Income and wealth of India's top 1% at historical high: Report is: 
 The report claimed that between 2014-15 and 2022-23, the rise of top-end inequality, when it comes to wealth concentrations, has been significantly high. The shares of income and wealth of India’s top 1% at 22.6% and 40.1% respectively is at their “highest historical levels” in 2022-23, beating even developed economies such as the US, according to a paper released by the World Inequality Lab.The paper, co-authored by economists Nitin Kumar Bharti, Lucas Chancel, Thomas Piketty, and Anmol Somanchi, said the country reached its historical highs in the last financial year. Naming the paper, the “Billionaire Raj”, the authors claimed that the country was now more unequal than even the British Raj.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPost-independence era saw the income and wealth gap decline till the early 1980s after which “it began rising and has skyrocketed since the early 2000s”, the report said.It also claimed that between 2014-15 and 2022-23, the rise of top-end inequality, when it comes to wealth concentrations, has been significantly high. One of the major issue on policy level has been the country’s taxation system. The paper said as per the suggestive evidence, “Indian income tax system might be regressive when viewed from the lens of net wealth.”“A restructuring of the tax code to account for both income and wealth, and broad-based public investments in health, education and nutrition are needed to enable the average Indian, and not just the elites, to meaningfully benefit from the ongoing wave of globalization,” according to the paper.
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2024 02:08 PM IST with headline  The Macro Puzzle – II: Divergence between Consumption and GDP is: 
 In 2023-24 we see that the difference between GDP and consumption has increased to 4.5 percentage points. Since the release of the GDP (Gross Domestic Product) estimates for third quarter (Q3) 2023-24 and for the entire year 2023-24, economists have been discussing the underlying trends of GDP growth. The data has led to posing more questions than giving answers. In an earlier article, I had discussed how the data shows wide divergence between growth rates of GDP and GVA. As both GDP and GVA approaches are used for computing a nation’s income, the difference in growth rates should at best be marginal.In this article, we explore another odd finding from the GDP data: Wide divergence between growth rates of GDP and Consumption. We need to understand some basics before looking at the recent data.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn the earlier article, I had discussed how statistical authorities first calculate GVA and then compute GDP. The GVA approach is also called the Production approach. There is another approach to estimate GDP: Expenditure approach.India’s Consumption And GDP TrajectoriesUnder the Expenditure approach, we estimate the expenditure incurred by the four major sectors of the economy: Households (consumption expenditure or C), Corporates (investment expenditure or I), Government (government expenditure or G) and External Sector (Spending on exports or X minus imports or M). On adding these different expenditures we get GDP (or Y). The expenditure approach is also the famous macroeconomic identity: Y = C + I + G + X – M.
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2024 02:10 PM IST with headline  India's sponge iron producers seek duties to curb iron ore exports is: 
 India's sponge iron producers seek duties to curb iron ore exports Indian sponge iron producers have urged the government to impose duties on exports of low-grade iron ore to stave off shortages of the main raw material in the world's second-biggest crude steel producer."We have urged the government that there is a shortage of iron ore, (so) please intervene and levy export duty," Rahul Mittal, chairman of the Sponge Iron Manufacturers Association, told Reuters in an interview.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIndia, the world's biggest sponge iron producer, has about 336 sponge iron plants spread across the country. India produces around 50 million metric tons of sponge iron, which is mostly used by secondary steel producers as raw material.India's iron ore exports touched 32.2 million metric tons during the first nine months of the current fiscal year that began in April 2023 - worth $2.7 billion - from 9.5 million metric tons a year earlier.More than 90% of India's overall iron ore shipments go to neighbouring China.
 
The news published on the date March 26, 2024 05:10 PM IST with headline  Rising Bharat Summit 2024: Brand Bharat differentiates India’s strengths, says Amitabh Kant is: 
 . India has taken great leaps in infrastructure, digitisation and climate change with the aspiration to become a modern progressive nation based on our civilisation, which is the differentiator of brand Bharat, G20 Sherpa Amitabh Kant said on March 20.“What we have achieved in digitisation, climate change, infrastructure, there is a huge sense of national pride. We are not aping the West anymore, vestiges of colonialism have gone. We are going back to our roots. We want to be a modern progressive nation based on our own civilisation. Bharat gives you that sense as the time is now to be aspirational,” Kant said at the News18 Rising Bharat Summit 2024.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWhile the Centre's capital expenditure for 2024-25 is estimated at Rs 11.11 lakh crore, its effective capex, after accounting for grants-in-aid for creation of capital assets, which include allocations under demand-driven schemes such as the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act scheme, stands at Rs 14.97 lakh crore, up from the revised estimate of Rs 12.71 lakh crore in 2023-24.“Bharat brand works best when we differentiate on our strengths. It’s about encapsulating what we have achieved in our growth, quantum leap in digitisation and infrastructure. Time is now to leapfrog,” he said.India’s economic growth continued to be robust in the third quarter backed by strong momentum, robust indirect taxes, and lower subsidies, according to the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) monthly State of the Economy article, released on March 19. India's gross domestic product (GDP) grew 8.4 percent in the December quarter, data released by the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation on February 29 showed, blowing all expectations out of the water.
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2024 01:37 PM IST with headline  Rollback Under Duress: How reform attempts in the sugar and fertiliser sectors have fared is: 
 The two examples of sugar and fertiliser show the limits of complete decontrol of the agriculture sector. Now that general elections have been declared and no policy decisions are expected till the formation of new government, it is time to look at the reforms in two major sectors – sugar and fertilisers. Both have seen rolling back of reforms. This raises a question as to whether it is premature to expect complete deregulation in India’s agriculture and food sectors.Sugar SectorStory continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn April 2013, the UPA government decided to abolish the levy system on sugar under which the sugar mills were required to deliver at least 10 percent of their production to the Government. The price fixed for levy sugar was almost always less than the market price. The Government provided the levy sugar to state governments for distribution under the public distribution system (PDS). The sugar mills bore a burden of Rs 1,800 crore to Rs 2,500 crore on account of levy sugar.The Government decided that instead of levy sugar, it will provide a cash subsidy to the states for purchasing sugar from the open market. The Government paid a fixed sugar subsidy of Rs 18.50 per kg to the states and they were asked to charge Rs 13.50 per kg from the Antyodaya Anna Yoiana (AAY) beneficiaries.More importantly, the Union Government decided to scrap the release mechanism of sugar under which the Sugar Division of Department of Food and Public Distribution (DFPD) decided the quantity of sugar which could be sold by a sugar mill in each month.
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2024 11:19 AM IST with headline  India’s regulators SEBI and RBI are acting tough to restore credibility is: 
 The SEBI is concerned about the froth in asset prices, concentrated positions in illiquid small-cap shares and an unhealthy craze among retail investors for trading options. (Source: Bloomberg) The recent hyperactivity at both India’s banking regulator and the securities watchdog has caught the market by surprise. Commercial lenders have taken a rap for hiding their bad loans in private-credit funds. Investment banks are under the scanner for pushing initial public offerings past the finish line by funding mule accounts. A homegrown paymentspioneer was told to shut down its bank.Fintech firms in Bengaluru are complaining about regulatory overreach, as is the traditional finance industry in Mumbai. Even some overseas hedge funds are miffed at being asked to make onerous disclosures.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe screws are going to get tightened further. The reason is simple. Misbehavior of money in the commercial domain has paled into insignificance with the sudden spotlight on its role in the political arena. This scrutiny is affecting both the Reserve Bank of India and the Securities and Exchange Board of India, which are scrambling to repair their credibility.The SEBI’s reputation took a knock last year after New York-based short seller Hindenburg Research’s attack on Adani Group put its own oversight of the sprawling conglomerate under scrutiny. An Indian Supreme Court-appointed committee said in its report that the regulator had hit a wall in ascertaining if any of the 42 contributories in the 13 offshore funds that had invested in the group’s listed firms were fronts for Gautam Adani, an infrastructure tycoon seen to be close to Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Adani, who denied all of Hindenburg’s allegations, just last week described the short seller’s report as a campaign to politically defame India’s governance practices.It would be embarrassing for the Indian regulator — which has until April to wind up its inquiry — to be beaten by US prosecutors. The US Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of New York and the Justice Department’s fraud unit in Washington are probing if people or firms linked to Adani were involved in paying officials in India for favorable treatment on an energy project. While the investigation is at an advanced stage, it isn’t certain that it will lead to prosecution, Bloomberg News reported Friday. Adani companies described the report as false. The conglomerate’s market capitalization has slid by $6 billion to $184 billion over two days this week.
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2024 11:17 AM IST with headline  How India’s butter chicken found its place in America is: 
 Butter chicken served at a US-based Indian Buffet where an American flag hangs. (Source: Raj Tawney/Bloomberg) For as far back as I can remember, chicken makhani — or butter chicken as it’s more commonly known — has been a premiere dish for Indian cuisine in the United States. Oftentimes, it’s the only item that non-Desis can mention by name, and their love for the rich curry runs deep.It’s likely a significant reason why several analyses of Google searches have shown Indian food to be among the Top 5 most sought-after cuisines across the US.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFood companies have capitalized on this admiration by making jarred versions of the curry (often labeled as “sauce”) that can be purchased from most major retail grocery chains. And in 2023, the frozen dinner version claimed the #1 Lunch & Dinner spot in Trader Joe’s Customer Choice Awards, dethroning Mandarin orange chicken.But long before we could walk down grocery aisles, pick up pre-cooked butter chicken and pop it in a microwave to enjoy (a term I use loosely here), it had to be created.A fight for the credit of the dish’s origin story has reached India’s courts, as the descendants of two men stake claim.
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2024 09:41 AM IST with headline  Unilever’s ice cream scoop-out may increase appetite for another split is: 
 Actually making the announced cost cuts and reinvesting the money profitably requires better execution than Unilever has managed in the past. Spin offs work particularly well when the original corporate hodge podge obscures the value of one (or more) true gems. That isn’t the case with Unilever’s proposed demerger of its ice-cream business.Instead of an uplift in valuation, the scoop-out may simply increase investor appetite for bolder action on the group’s bloated portfolio.Unilever’s plan is best understood as the unwinding of a corporate footprint which made little sense in the first place. Ice-cream — which accounted for 1
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2024 10:03 AM IST with headline  Politics re-asserts the old adage: In Cash We Trust is: 
 In the short term, it is worth asking whether heightened political activity over the next few weeks will revive demand for currency Many old shops still display fading posters baldly proclaiming: “In Cash We Trust". Many others continue to assert that cash is king. Cash means many things to many people: currency notes, a generic term for money in any form and a catch-all phrase for capturing the monetary worth of assets. The advent of digital payments has hardened the distinction and now cash mostly means currency. There have been multiple attempts by economists, central bankers and government official
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2024 03:03 PM IST with headline  NABARD projects Rs 2,43,093 crore credit potential for Bihar in 2024-25 is: 
 - The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has projected Rs 2,43,093 crore credit potential for Bihar in 2024-25.The likely estimate has been made taking into account the Reserve Bank of India's priority sector-based guidelines, Central and state government policies and policies for sustainable agriculture and rural development.Story continues below AdvertisementThe State Focus Paper 2024-25 for Bihar, a compilation of the assessed credit flow for all 38 districts of the state was unveiled by Development Commissioner Chaitanya Prasad at NABARD's credit seminar here on Tuesday. The total credit flow under the priority sector for the year 2024-25 is estimated at Rs 2,43,093 crore.Prasad said, "There is a need for credit intensification through specific planning for each of the sub-sectors under agriculture in the state. Credit plays an important role in economic development and employment generation in the state".Chief General Manager, NABARD, Sunil Kumar said that as on March 31, 2023, "Bihar with a CD ratio of 53.01 per cent is classified as one of the states with the lowest CD Ratio. Twenty-eight out of 38 districts in the state have been classified as credit deficient districts, where per capita credit availability is less than Rs 6000".Kumar urged banks to remain committed to achieve the target suggested in the State Focus Paper in agriculture and allied sector as well as MSME and other priority sectors.Principal Secretary, Finance, Arvind Kumar Chaudhary said that the CD ratio of the state has increased over the years. He expressed concern over the fact that Kisan Credit Card coverage in Bihar is still limited to 25 per cent land holding
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2024 09:19 AM IST with headline  Marketing Musings | Catching eyeballs: From television to digital is: 
 Digital marketing and advertising democratises the market place but buyers are fragmented unlike in the past. Highlights:Print and television were the binary choices of promotion and reach so farDigital branding is key for awareness but television wins for long term sustainable brandingAnalytics has taken over as a key process to assess the effectiveness of advertising in the digital worldMadison agency highlights five key trends for the current yearDigital marketing and advertising democratises the market place but buyers are fragmented unlike in the pas
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2024 02:10 PM IST with headline  India prepares to start new LNG import terminal as demand rises is: 
 India prepares to start new LNG import terminal as demand rises India is looking to purchase the inaugural shipment for its latest liquefied natural gas terminal, as the nation aims to rapidly increase consumption of the fuel this decade.Gujarat State Petroleum Corp. released a tender to buy a commissioning cargo for the Chhara terminal for delivery in April, according to traders with knowledge of the matter. The facility in Gujarat state is being developed by Hindustan Petroleum Corp., and will have the capacity to import 5 million tons per year of LNG.Story continues below AdvertisementNew Delhi is trying to increase LNG import capacity to lift the share of natural gas in its energy mix to 15% by 2030 from about 7% now. The move is to help lower the dependence on dirtier fossil fuels, such as coal and oil.India currently imports LNG via seven terminals. Along with the Chhara facility, Swan Energy Ltd.’s Jafrabad import facility is also expected to begin operations this year, according to BloombergNEF
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2024 08:39 AM IST with headline  MC Pro Inside Edge: Early conversion at Walchandnagar Industries, Halwasiya firms continue slide, MFs punt on ‘future’, Wockhardt shuts window is: 
 Cash the chipsThe 33 investors—including two promoter group entities—who were allotted preferential warrants in Walchandnagar Industries in October 2023, have converted a tidy portion of those warrants into shares. Under the rules, they can convert the warrants into shares anytime within 18 months from the date of allotment. Some investors have converted all of their warrants by paying the outstanding amount. The development has surprised the Street because the very idea of subscribing to warrants is t
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2024 08:16 AM IST with headline  RBI report shows India has a friend in growth, a frenemy in inflation is: 
 RBI's growth hopes spar with its inflation worry HighlightsRBI report maintains its sanguine tone over India’s economic growth and prospectsRBI researchers expect GDP growth to be very near 8 percent for FY24Investment growth is robust and private capex is showing signs of revivalRBI report recognizes benefits of core inflation fall but still wary on food inflatio
 
The news published on the date March 29, 2024 02:17 PM IST with headline  India hasn't had an ambition like Viksit Bharat since independence movement: Smriti Irani is: 
 Irani was speaking at News18’s Rising Bharat Summit on March 19. India has not had a "national ambition" like Viksit Bharat by 2047 since the movement to gain independence from the British, Smriti Irani, union minister for women and child development and minority affairs, said.Speaking at News18's Rising Bharat Summit on March 19 in New Delhi, Irani also said Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Narendra Modi are the only two leaders to have called for votes on the basis of their performance instead of emotion.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: 'Scared of defeat in Amethi' – Irani takes dig at Rahul, counters 'Shakti' remark"For too long and for too many years in our country we have seen people vote on the basis of emotion. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and before him Atal Bihari Vajpaee, are two leaders who said 'judge us by our development performance'. What you see on the opposite side are people who are pliant and depending on negative rhetoric," Irani said."Modi is the only leader right now who has given you a national ambition. After the freedom movement, we have never had a national ambition and a clarion call like (becoming developed by 2047)," she added.
 
The news published on the date March 19, 2024 06:44 PM IST with headline  World shares dip, yen slides amid landmark BOJ policy shift is: 
 World shares dip, yen slides amid landmark BOJ policy shift Global shares dipped and the yen slid on Tuesday after the Bank of Japan met market expectations by ending eight years of negative interest rates, likely the highlight of a busy week for central banks.MSCI's world share index dropped 0.16%, though was still near all-time highs, and U.S. Nasdaq futures were down 0.7%, with chip stocks having a rare bad day in premarket trading. The U.S benchmark 10-year Treasury yield was around 1 basis point (bp) lower at 4.33%. [.N] [US/]Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe day's big news was in Japan, where the BOJ heralded a new era as it shifted away from years of ultra-easy monetary policy. It also abandoned bond yield curve control and dropped purchases of riskier assets, including exchange-traded funds.Japan's Nikkei was choppy after the decision but closed 0.66% higher, buoyed by the weaker yen, while Japanese government bond yields fell. The dollar rose as much as 1% to 150.7 yen."The BOJ clearly has been very, very keen to manage this process so that it is not disruptive," said David Mitchinson, fund manager at Japan focused Zennor Asset Management. "The markets have front-run them and anticipated their move."
 
The news published on the date March 19, 2024 06:41 PM IST with headline  States borrow record Rs 50,200 crore from market; pricing jumps 7 bps to 7.45% is: 
 The cash-strapped states are borrowing more from the market as the fiscal year is about to close. Normally, the March quarter is the busiest for government spending In the largest weekly auction ever, 17 states have mopped up Rs 50,200 crore in debt from the market, 81 per cent higher than the Rs 27,500 crore indicated in the auction calendar for this Tuesday.Reflecting the massive supply, the weighted average cut-off, which has been declining steadily since last month, has climbed by 7 bps to 7.45 per cent from 7.38 per cent last week. Reflecting the massive supply, the weighted average cut-off, which has been declining steadily since last month, has climbed by 7 bps to 7.45 per cent from 7.38 per cent last week.Story continues below AdvertisementAfter hitting a two-year high of 7.89 in the first weekly auction in January and remaining thereabout, the interest rates began to fall from January after the Centre released the states’ dues from the tax devolution in the first week of February. The cash-strapped states are borrowing more from the market as the fiscal year is about to close.The cash-strapped states are borrowing more from the market as the fiscal year is about to close. Normally, the March quarter is the busiest for government spending. The record high supply today was in spite of a mild decline in the weighted average tenor of state debt to 15 years from 16 years, Icra Ratings chief economist Aditi Nayar said in a note.As a result, the spread between the cut-off of the 10-year state bonds and the benchmark 10-year G-sec (7.18 GS 2033) yield also increased mildly to 36 bps from 35 bps last week, she said. As a result, the spread between the cut-off of the 10-year state bonds and the benchmark 10-year G-sec (7.18 GS 2033) yield also increased mildly to 36 bps from 35 bps last week, she said. So far this fiscal, the states have drawn down 29.4 per cent more than the year-ago period at Rs 9.28 lakh crore from Rs 7.17 lakh crore in the same period last fiscal
 
The news published on the date March 19, 2024 05:07 PM IST with headline  Gold slips on stronger dollar as investors strap in for Fed meeting is: 
 Gold slips on stronger dollar as investors strap in for Fed meeting Gold prices drifted lower on Tuesday as the US dollar firmed, while investors await remarks from U.S. Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell scheduled after the central bank's policy meeting wraps up on Wednesday for more clarity on interest rate cut moves.Spot gold fell 0.3% at $2,153.60 per ounce as of 1027 GMT, hovering near its lowest levels in a week hit on Monday. US gold futures eased 0.3% at $2,157.30.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe dollar gained 0.5% and hit a more than two-week high, making gold more expensive for other currency holders. [USD/]"With the FOMC meeting approaching and some concern of a more hawkish FOMC statement, with the dots eventually indicating less rate cuts this year, some market participants prefer to hold a more cautious stance by reducing their (gold) holdings," said UBS analyst Giovanni Staunovo.Markets widely expect the Fed to stand pat on rates at its two-day policy meeting that starts later in the day, but attention will largely focussed around comments from Powell on updated interest rate projections due on Wednesday.
 
The news published on the date March 19, 2024 04:15 PM IST with headline  Rupee declines 12 paise to close at 83.02 against US dollar is: 
 Rupee declines 12 paise to close at 83.02 against US dollar The rupee depreciated 12 paise to 83.02 (provisional) against the US dollar on Tuesday, weighed down by a heavy selloff in domestic equities and persistent foreign capital outflows.Besides, a surging greenback against major crosses overseas also pulled down the other local currency, forex traders said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt the interbank foreign exchange market, the local unit opened at 82.94 and touched the intra-day low of 83.05 and a high of 82.93. It finally settled at 83.02 (provisional) against the dollar, registering a loss of 12 paise from its previous close.On Monday, the rupee dropped 4 paise to settle at 82.90 against the US dollar."The rupee's…decline is primarily driven by a significant rise in the dollar index, which surged by USD 0.70 to USD 103.70. This surge stems from a shift in expectations regarding the US Federal Reserve's interest rate policy.
 
The news published on the date March 19, 2024 10:36 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Mergers are not a please-all solution is: 
 Mergers and acquisitions are not always the best way to grow a business. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMergers and acquisitions are not always the best way to grow a business. Companies resort to them to expand their product offering, gain scale and operating efficiencies. Yet such activities can create role redundancies, trigger attrition and sometimes even disturb the growth tempo.HDFC Bank is the latest company to report an exit of a senior employee Arvind Kapil, group head retail assets - home loans. Kapil is heading towards Poonawalla Fincorp where he is set to become a managing director and chief executive officer (CEO).After the merger of HDFC, HDFC Bank has seen exits of several senior executives. Some went on to take leadership roles in companies outside HDFC Bank. While employee churn is not uncommon, investors should watch out for the impact on the business. Departing executives tend to dip into the talent pool of their previous organisations. But a steady loss of talent can weigh on business momentum. “We believe any similar churn at the senior management level over the near-to-medium term will be a key monitorable,” warn analysts at Nomura.Developments in the IT sector hold a cautionary message too. LTIMindtree, which was created after merging Mindtree with Larsen & Toubro Infotech, lost steam after amalgamation of the companies.
 
The news published on the date March 20, 2024 02:18 AM IST with headline  Bank of Japan ends era of negative interest rates is: 
 Despite the return to positive interest rates, BoJ officials do not see the first increase as a signal that more will quickly follow. Kana Inagaki in TokyoThe Bank of Japan has ended an era of negative interest rates, raising borrowing costs for the first time since 2007 in a historic shift as the country puts decades of deflation behind it.Kazuo Ueda, the BoJ governor, brought an end to more than a decade of ultra-loose monetary policy, abandoning a swath of easing measures that were put in place to stimulate Asia’s most advanced economy.Following a 7-2 majority vote the BoJ sai
 
The news published on the date March 19, 2024 04:00 PM IST with headline  India buying more US oil as sanctions stifle Russian flows is: 
 India buying more US oil as sanctions stifle Russian flows Indian oil refiners are on track to take the most American crude in almost a year after tighter enforcement of US sanctions crimped trade with Russia and forced processors to look elsewhere for supply.State-owned Bharat Petroleum Corp. and Indian Oil Corp., along with top private refiner Reliance Industries Ltd., have purchased about 7 million barrels of April-loading US crude so far this month, said traders who asked not to be identified. That would be the largest monthly volume since May, according to Kpler.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdRussian crude flows to India surged after the invasion of Ukraine and the OPEC+ producer is still the biggest supplier to the South Asian nation, but tighter US sanctions have stranded cargoes and discounts have narrowed. India has also ramped up purchases recently from Saudi Arabia.Bharat Petroleum, Indian Oil and Reliance Industries didn’t immediately respond to emails seeking comment.
 
The news published on the date March 19, 2024 12:55 PM IST with headline  Ashwini Vaishnaw rejects jobless growth claim, says 1.44 crore opportunities created every year is: 
 Vaishnaw, the Union Minister for railways, electronics and information technology, and communications, was speaking at News18’s Rising Bharat Summit on March 19. Union Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw has rejected accusations by Congress leader P Chidambaram of India's growth story being 'jobless', saying data showed that nearly 1.5 crore job opportunities were being created every year. According to Vaishnaw, this is double of what was being created a few years ago.Vaishnaw was responding to a question on the matter at News18's Rising Bharat Summit in New Delhi on March 19.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: What's driving rise in participation of women in the workforce?"I challenge P Chidambaram," Vaishnaw said."Anyone who is employed with an organisation is registered with the Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) and a portion of their salary is deducted and the employer also makes a contribution. This data is accepted by everyone. And as per EPFO data, the number of new jobs minus those who have left their jobs plus those who have returned to employment - this net number is the total job opportunity. This is straightforward math," he added.
 
The news published on the date March 19, 2024 04:59 PM IST with headline  India's exports may reach $450 billion this fiscal: New FIEO President Ashwani Kumar is: 
 India's exports may reach $450 billion this fiscal: New FIEO President Ashwani Kumar The country's merchandise exports are expected to reach USD 450 billion by the end of this fiscal despite geo-political challenges like the Red Sea crisis, newly elected president of apex exporters body FIEO Ashwani Kumar said on Tuesday.He said that the need of the hour is to address the Red Sea crisis challenges by ensuring the availability of marine insurance and rational increase in freight charges.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe exporting sector, particularly, MSMEs, needs easy and low-cost credit, and marketing support to further boost the country's exports, Kumar said, adding early conclusion of free trade agreements such as with the UK and Oman will also help push the outbound shipments."I will focus on addressing issues of MSMEs as they are going to play. They will play a key role in achieving the USD 1 trillion goods export target by 2030. They are the backbone of the economy and they are facing certain issues pertaining to credit. I would urge banks to come forward in extending support to these units," Kumar said.Further, the FIEO (Federation of Indian Export Organisations) president said that the organisation is also working on exploring more opportunities for exporters in regions like Latin America and Africa.
 
The news published on the date March 19, 2024 04:00 PM IST with headline  Significant ramp up in capacities to help achieve $40 billion exports target is: 
 Significant ramp up in capacities to help achieve $40 billion exports target Steps such as significant ramp up in production capacities, and skilling of workforce will help achieve USD 40 billion garment exports target by 2030, AEPC said on Tuesday.Apparel Export Promotion Council of India (AEPC) Chairman Sudhir Sekhri said skilled workers like tailors and quality checkers are still not sufficient as during the peak season they go to their native villages thereby creating shortage.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Our target to reach USD 40 billion of RMG (readymade garments) export by 2030 can be a reality and my duty is to take every possible step to reach this target," Sekhri said.He said "we need to ramp up our capacities as the export houses in India are still unable to handle core/basic products which are required in huge quantities".He added that the council is also focused on skilling the workforce.
 
The news published on the date March 19, 2024 12:05 PM IST with headline  How to forecast price reversals and get an early-mover advantage is: 
 Armed with the right information you can plan your trades to utilise your capital more effectively. Trading is a game of probabilities and not certainties. In such a scenario, the slightest edge a trader has can help him stay ahead of the crowds. This piece is about giving you that edge.In physics there is a concept of chaotic attraction. Note how lightning strikes a lightning arrestor affixed on top of high rise apartments, even though the tip of the lightning rod is like the tip of a spear. When you smoke a cigarette
 
The news published on the date March 19, 2024 10:02 AM IST with headline  Why India’s FDI inflow is slowing down, and measures to deal with it is: 
 FDI inflows into India have been slowing down. India with its rapid GDP growth of $3.5 trillion, a population of 1.4 billion, along with an abundant supply of workers and favourable geopolitical dynamics -- presents an attractive option for countries and corporations seeking to reduce their reliance on China. As they seek alternative suppliers capable of matching China in pricing and scale, India emerges as a prime destination for foreign investors, checking all the right boxes.Yet FDI inflows into India have been slowing down. According to RBI data, India’s gross FDI inflows in the first six months of current financial year stood at a meagre $10.1 billion. As a percentage of its GDP, gross FDI inflows fell to 1 percent, while net FDI fell to 0.6 percent in this period. In comparison, this ratio is a whopping 4.5 percent for Vietnam.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFurthermore, as much as 60 percent of Vietnam’s FDI inflows go to its manufacturing sector, compared to not even 20-25 percent in India. This is despite manufacturing being the focus of government policy measures that include among others, slashed corporation tax (17 percent for new manufacturing units), increased import duties to protect indigenous manufacturers from competitively priced imports, and a generous production linked incentive (PLI) to support Make in India.Attracting Foreign Investment Part of the slowdown in India’s FDI inflows can be attributed to increasing inward orientation globally. Nevertheless, slowing global FDI flows can’t fully explain the sharp contraction in India’s foreign investment inflows. The fact remains that foreign investors don’t seem to be as excited about India as we Indians expect them to be.
 
The news published on the date March 19, 2024 08:28 AM IST with headline  MC Pro Inside Edge: Fund managers in Apollo Tyres in for a bumpy ride, Varanium promoter’s diversification strategy, shoot the messenger, new storylines is: 
 Flat tyreDomestic fund houses who piled on to Apollo Tyres in December when Warburg Pincus arm White Iris was trimming its stake must be wondering whether to stay put or temporarily retreat. The deal looked a bargain when the stock price shot up by Rs 100 immediately after the block deal. Interestingly, the stock was rising in January and early February even as rubber prices and oil prices were firming up. The narrative was that strong automobil
 
The news published on the date March 18, 2024 03:12 PM IST with headline  India can’t match China’s past 8-10% growth, Morgan Stanley says is: 
 India can’t match China’s past 8-10% growth, Morgan Stanley says India is unlikely to achieve the 8%-10% economic growth rates that China pulled off over the long term, Morgan Stanley’s chief Asia economist said, even though the investment bank remains optimistic about the South Asian nation’s prospects.India’s economy will likely grow steadily at 6.5%-7% over the long term, Chetan Ahya said in interview Monday with Bloomberg Television’s Haslinda Amin. The South Asian nation is also far from replacing its bigger rival as a global manufacturing hub, he added.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdChina’s growth averaged 10% a year in the three decades after its economic reforms in 1978, official figures show.Economic progress in India is being hamstrung by a lack of infrastructure, and a low skilled workforce, Ahya said. “Both these constraints make us believe that India’s growth is going to be strong, but at 6.5%-7% rather than 8%-10%,” he said.Even so, Morgan Stanley remains upbeat about India’s prospects, and said in a recent report that the current expansion resembles that of the mid-2000s boom, fueled by rising investment.
 
The news published on the date March 18, 2024 05:53 PM IST with headline  The elusive search for economic transformation is: 
 - If the UK’s real gross domestic product per head had continued on its 1955-2008 path, it would now be 39 per cent higher. I made this point in a column on Jeremy Hunt’s recent Budget. This performance is dreadful. But it is far from unique. France has been doing about as badly.In the long run, continued stagnation creates severe social and political challenges: higher taxes; worsening quality of public services; pervasive disappointment; and zero-sum struggles for advantage
 
The news published on the date March 18, 2024 12:12 PM IST with headline  Digital Competition Bill: A mixed bag is: 
 - Kazim RizviIn a much-awaited move, the Committee on Digital Competition Law (‘CDCL/the Committee’) has finally released its report (‘the Report’) recommending an ex-ante framework for the regulation of digital markets along with the Draft Digital Competition Bill 2024 (‘DCB/the Bill’), specifically to large digital enterprises, i.e., Systemically Significant Digital Enterprises (SSDEs). As discussions on the proposed law intensify, examining its consultation process, scope, and provisions is essential.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdConsultation PeriodWhile the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) has provided time until April 15 to submit comments on the report and the Bill, this is insufficient for stakeholders to provide meaningful and evidence-based comments.The timeline needs to be cognizant of the fact that the draft bill and report are technically complex and might require analysis from the lens of law, economics, governance frameworks, and business operations. A longer timeline of at least three months would give the stakeholders ample time to submit comments.
 
The news published on the date March 18, 2024 10:52 AM IST with headline  SEBI's intervention to address market 'froth' takes it into uncharted territory is: 
 - HighlightsSmall, midcap stocks have fallen sharply ever since the SEBI chairperson warned of manipulationSEBI said there is froth or a bubble situation among small, midcap stocksMutual funds have trimmed positions in these segments and investors are jitterySEBI's regulator’s warnings may be justified but evidence backing them is yet to be made publi
 
The news published on the date March 18, 2024 03:12 PM IST with headline  New CPI series could combine 2022-23, 2023-24 consumer surveys; annual survey unlikely: Sources is: 
 Policymakers and economists have raised concerns about the outdated nature of the CPI as a measure of inflation. India's new Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation series could be a combination of the results of the 2022-23 and 2023-24 Household Consumer Expenditure Surveys (HCES), according to people aware of developments.On February 24, the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation published a 'fact sheet' on the findings of the 2022-23 (August-July) survey, with the detailed report to be released "subsequently". But with the ministry currently conducting the 2023-24 HCES, set to be completed in July 2024, the groundwork to update the badly-outdated CPI inflation series is far from done.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: MPC's Ashima Goyal says CPI basket needs updating, core inflation may be better targetIt is understood that once the second survey is also completed, an exercise will first be carried out where all options will be examined: a new CPI series based on the 2022-23 survey, another on the 2023-24 survey, and a third on the basis of a weighted average of the two surveys."It is also possible the results of the second survey could be ignored," a government source said.
 
The news published on the date March 18, 2024 10:00 AM IST with headline  Simultaneous polls: Some questions need answers is: 
 Since 1952, simultaneous polls were held in India and that continued up to 1967 The high-powered committee on ‘one nation one election’ (ONOE) formed last year and headed by former President Ram Nath Kovind has submitted its report to President Droupadi Murmu last Thursday. The committee has recommended simultaneous elections from 2029 to all the three tiers, the Lok Sabha, State Assemblies, followed by local bodies.The BJP has been in favour of simultaneous polls since long ago. This promise appeared in their 2019 election manifesto too. If the BJP comes t
 
The news published on the date March 18, 2024 09:08 AM IST with headline  India has little time to lose as new land routes in Central Asia, Iran spring up as trade links is: 
 HighlightsThe Red Sea route troubles have necessitated usage of alternative trade corridors for countriesThe so-called Middle corridor, a predominantly rail route is gaining traction, connecting Central Asia and EuropeMiddle corridor is 4,250 kms of railway lines and just over 500 kms of sea corridors, stretching from China’s Pacific coast into PolandThe corridor has a current total throughput capacity of 5.8 million tons of cargo annually and capacity can be increased to 10 million tons by 2030China ha
 
The news published on the date March 18, 2024 08:52 AM IST with headline  Is the EV policy a bait for Tesla or a bet on realising India’s manufacturing potential? is: 
 Representative image HighlightsThe EV policy offers import duty relief to certain categories of vehiclesThe duty concession aligns with Tesla’s demand for setting up a manufacturing base in IndiaThe policy has riders to ensure that the domestic industry is not left behind in the EV raceAt the same time, the policy should encourage global investment and adoption of cutting-edge technologyBy dropping the protectionist stance, the EV policy signals India’s willingness to open up to encourage local manufacturin
 
The news published on the date March 16, 2024 10:54 AM IST with headline  Assam secured over Rs 13,000-crore investments in last 14 months: Himanta Biswa Sarma is: 
 The IIPA was amended in 2023 to attract mega investments of Rs 100 crore and more, with permanent jobs for 200 or more, Himanta Biswa Sarma said in a post on X on Friday Assam has secured investments to the tune of Rs 13,364 crore with employment generation for more than 17,000 people in the last 14 months, Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said.The investments have been committed through 21 proposals, approved by the state cabinet, under the Industrial and Investment Policy of Assam (IIPA), 2019. The investments have been committed through 21 proposals, approved by the state cabinet, under the Industrial and Investment Policy of Assam (IIPA), 2019.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe IIPA was amended in 2023 to attract mega investments of Rs 100 crore and more, with permanent jobs for 200 or more, he said in a post on X on Friday. While MoUs for 14 of these proposals were signed earlier, seven agreements were inked on Friday, he said. While MoUs for 14 of these proposals were signed earlier, seven agreements were inked on Friday, he said."In January 2023, we announced a policy to customise incentives for mega investors. Today, 7 more firms committed to create 6,500 jobs through Rs 2,000 cr of investment,” said. In last 14 months, through this policy, Assam has secured investments of Rs 13,364 crore and 17,700 jobs, the chief minister said.In last 14 months, through this policy, Assam has secured investments of Rs 13,364 crore and 17,700 jobs, the chief minister said. Among the companies that have entered into MoUs so far are PepsiCo India, Star Cement, Jericho Chemicals, Indian Hotels Company Ltd, Maxim Infrastructure Pvt Ltd and Topcem India LLP, officials said
 
The news published on the date March 16, 2024 09:54 AM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Weekender: Bubble trouble in Wonderland  is: 
 Dear Reader,SEBI chairperson Madhabi Puri Buch scared the markets this week by saying there were pockets of froth in small and midcap stocks that could become a bubble. It wasn’t just talk. She asked all asset management companies to conduct stress tests on small- and mid-cap funds to assess the liquidity of a portfolio in the event of unusual redemption pressure, and to tell investors the results. The Nifty Smallcap index fell around 11 percent in the next few days from its peak. It led to panic in the markets, which was expected, and some bad poetry, which was not. Sample the opening of a ghastly piece with the heading, ‘’ÇryDay The 13th’’ that made the rounds on WhatsApp:Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“We are in a bubble’’Said, SEBI chiefAnd raised a rubble”
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 05:52 PM IST with headline  Business in the Week Ahead (March 18-22, 2024) is: 
 - It’s not an all-clear yet for the markets. The talk of pricey valuations of midcap and small cap stocks has already taken a toll. SEBI chief, Madhabi Puri Buch, has not minced her words as she spoke of signs of price manipulation in SME IPOs and subsequent share trading. Mutual funds have begun announcing results of their stress tests in mid and small cap schemes. While these disclosures will give investors some idea of where they stand
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 04:48 PM IST with headline  The Reading List: March 15, 2024 is: 
 A selection of articles and social media gems from the world of economy, business and finance. In a world strapped for time, we thought you may find it useful to have a selection of articles we read this past week. As the week winds down, you can browse through them and turn up with some new thoughts and views on Monday. It’s a broad mix of topics but mainly from the world of business, economy and finance. Occasionally, we may stray from these subjects.These links may be from external websites we frequent o
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 04:30 PM IST with headline  Q3 GDP numbers absolutely mystifying, difficult to comprehend, says former CEA Arvind Subramanian is: 
 The former CEA wondered if India has become such an attractive place, why is not there more foreign direct investment. Former chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian on Friday said India's latest GDP numbers are 'absolutely mystifying' and difficult to comprehend. India's economy grew by better-than-expected 8.4 per cent in the final three months of 2023 - the fastest pace in one-and-half years. India's economy grew by better-than-expected 8.4 per cent in the final three months of 2023 - the fastest pace in one-and-half years."I want to be honest with you that the latest GDP numbers, I just simply can not understand them. "I say that with genuine respect and things. They are absolutely mystifying. They don't add up.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdI don't know what they mean," Arvind Subramanian said while speaking at the India Today conclave. "I say that with genuine respect and things. They are absolutely mystifying. They don't add up. I don't know what they mean," Arvind Subramanian said while speaking at the India Today conclave.The NSO has also revised GDP estimates for the first and second quarters of this fiscal to 8.2 per cent and 8.1 per cent from 7.8 per cent and 7.6 per cent, respectively. Elaborating further, Subramanian said while the implied inflation in these numbers is 1 to 1.5 per cent, actual inflation in the economy is somewhere between 3 and 5 per cent. Elaborating further, Subramanian said while the implied inflation in these numbers is 1 to 1.5 per cent, actual inflation in the economy is somewhere between 3 and 5 per cent."The economy is growing at seven and a half per cent, even though private consumption is at 3 per cent," he pointed out. And in the latest data, Subramanian said errors and omissions, which are not accounted for, are actually about 4.3 percentage points out of the estimated 7.6 per cent growth for FY24. And in the latest data, Subramanian said errors and omissions, which are not accounted for, are actually about 4.3 percentage points out of the estimated 7.6 per cent growth for FY24."So it's a lot of stuff about the numbers which you know, I don't understand. I am not saying these are wrong. That's for others to judge," the former CEA said. According to Subramanian, while the buzz is that the economy has become a very good place to invest in, in the last few quarters, and last few years, it has actually declined very sharply. According to Subramanian, while the buzz is that the economy has become a very good place to invest in, in the last few quarters, and last few years, it has actually declined very sharply."... you can see foreign direct investment actually collapsed quite a bit," he said. The former CEA wondered if India has become such an attractive place, why is not there more foreign direct investment. The former CEA wondered if India has become such an attractive place, why is not there more foreign direct investment.
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 03:32 PM IST with headline  The world needs a soundtrack for the climate crisis is: 
 Chris Martin and his band, Coldplay, are trying to reduce their environmental impact. (Source: Bloomberg/Getty Images) The great social movements of history all had soundtracks. The civil rights movement had jazz, the blues and Nina Simone; its anthem was We Shall Overcome, originally a 19th-century hymn. The story of gay liberation is intertwined with disco culture, and some of the greatest pop songs have been written or adopted as LGBTQ+ anthems, from Gloria Gaynor’s I Will Survive to Born This Way by Lady Gaga. Music brought people together and helped move the dial on public acceptance by introducing ideas to the mainstream.Now, the planet itself needs a new social movement. Widespread behavioural changes are needed to reduce carbon emissions, along with public support for net-zero policies. We need to create a culture of environmentalism, which values nature, if we’re to defeat the climate crisis and biodiversity collapse. So, many people — including Brian Eno, the champion of ambient music — are asking: Where are our climate anthems?Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMusicians may struggle to to play the same role in the fight for climate action as they’ve done for other societal changes, given the industry’s carbon footprint and the private planes favoured by its superstars.There’s a temptation to dismiss art and culture’s role in climate communication. Isn’t this a science issue? Shouldn’t musicians just shut up and sing? Scientists and their research have been, and will always be, crucial in raising the alarm on fossil fuels and humanity’s damage to the planet. Rapid weather-attribution studies help make climate change visible and present; the development of low-carbon technologies are helping slash emissions.But who’s more influential to the masses: an atmospheric physicist, or a pop star? Musicians are able to reach far more people — and an entirely different demographic — than scientists or politicians. Nobody needs to hear what musicians think of, say, electricity market reform, but they can be advocates for sustainable lifestyle changes (perhaps Thrift Shop by Macklemore and Ryan Lewis ought to be considered a green tune), raise awareness and compel us to reflect on environmental issues.
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 03:23 PM IST with headline  Drug use at work isn’t biohacking. It’s workaholism is: 
 It’s possible that workaholism is not the cause of substance use problems, but a kind of fellow traveler. Elon Musk reportedly microdoses on ketamine at work; stressed-out female executives are self-medicating with psilocybin; Wall Street may be awash in stimulants. Tech executives are using psychedelics to be more creative, while traders and airline pilots rely on nicotine pouches like Zyn to stay alert. With these headlines, you’d be forgiven for thinking that everyone in a high-pressure job — or with serious ambition to climb the ladder — is now doing drugs.Not to sound like the nun at the orgy but: None of this is a good idea. We all know the risks drugs pose. Addiction. Overdose. Long-term health problems. The possibility that what one buys on the street — or from a coworker — could be contaminated with something more dangerous.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIt’s hard to get a concrete picture of drug use by professionals because, well, data on illicit drug use isn’t broken out by industry or job title. But even if the anecdote-driven reports oversell the problem, it’s clear that the “just say no” and “this is your brain on drugs” eras are a relic of the past.“We’re in a relatively more permissive culture for use of many substances now,” says Dr. Rocco Iannucci, an expert on substance use disorders at McLean Hospital, the mental health arm of Harvard Medical School. “And maybe a really stressful culture at the same time.” That’s a dangerous recipe.Many of the professionals using illicit substances are working long hours and feel like they don’t have time to unwind, exercise, or connect with friends or family. That can fuel a desire for a quick fix to feel better, Iannucci says. Or they’re looking for something to help them keep working.
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 04:03 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Markets need their Vitamin D too, as disclosures make them stronger is: 
 Gainers & Losers Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdA recent study by Tata 1mg Labs revealed that 3 out of 4 Indians suffer from Vitamin D deficiency. Inadequate exposure to sunlight is a primary factor. Vitamin D is critical to a healthy and active life and to keep diseases at bay but we are here to discuss another Vitamin D -- Disclosures.In every way, a healthy and vibrant capital market also needs its dosage of Vitamin D through regular disclosures of pertinent information. Indeed, information asymmetry is a big reason why markets become inefficient, illiquid, and sometimes even illogical.Disclosures were at the centre of the Securities and Exchange Board of India’s (SEBI) move to instil some caution into the equity market. SEBI has mandated that mutual fund houses must conduct a stress test of their funds and publish this information for the benefit of investors. We explain here what are these stress tests and my colleague N Mahalakshmi explains lucidly here the importance of these stress tests.
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 09:04 PM IST with headline  India's oilmeals export up 9% to nearly 5.16 lakh tonne in February on higher soyameal shipments is: 
 India's oilmeals export up 9% to nearly 5.16 lakh tonne in February on higher soyameal shipments Oilmeals export rose 9 per cent year-on-year in February to nearly 5.16 lakh tonnes on higher outward shipments of soyabean meal, according to trade data.In a statement on Friday, Solvent Extraction of India (SEA) said the export of oilmeals in February stood at 515,704 tonne as compared to 4,71,770 tonne in the year-ago period.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOf the total oilmeals export last month, the shipments of soyabean meal stood at 3,47,905 tonne and rapeseed meal 1,44,372 tonne.The data showed that the total export of oilmeals during the April-February period of this fiscal increased 19 per cent to 44,90,055 tonne as compared to 37,60,329 tonne in the corresponding period of the previous year.The export of soybean meal during the April-February period of the 2023-24 fiscal rose to 19.34 lakh tonne compared to 7.87 lakh tonne in the same period of the previous year as Indian soybean meal was most competitive in the international market.
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 04:48 PM IST with headline  Who is Santiago Martin, the biggest political donor through electoral bonds? is: 
 Santiago Martin and electoral bonds Future Gaming and Hotel Services, the company owned by Santiago Martin, has emerged as the top donor to political parties via electoral bonds, according to the published on the Election Commission website on March 14.The company bought electoral bonds worth Rs 1,300 crore approximately between 2019 and 2024. The poll panel uploaded the data on its website as received from the State Bank of India (SBI) after the Supreme Court's directions.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdWho is Santiago Martin?From his humble beginnings to his current stature as a lottery king, Martin's journey has been a rollercoaster ride. Born in a modest family, Martin began dabbling in the lottery business at the age of 13, according to his LinkedIn profile, laying the foundation for what would later become his empire.The business, according to his profile on the professional networking site, has reported an average annual growth of 109 percent, with a professional strength of more than 1,000 committed staff and more than 260 stockiest in all lottery playing states. Besides the lottery business, his interests range from real estate, construction, alternative energy, visual media entertainment, textiles and yarn, hospitality, health care and education, software and technology, property development, agro and building materials.
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 08:56 PM IST with headline  India's February trade deficit widens to $18.71 billion, exports at 11-month high is: 
 The Commerce Ministry released trade data for February 2024 on March 15. India's merchandise trade deficit widened to $18.71 billion in February from $17.49 billion in January, the commerce ministry said on March 15. The trade deficit stood at $16.57 billion in February 2023.While the trade deficit widened in February, exports rose by 11.9 percent from the year-ago period to $41.40 billion and imports were up 12.2 percent at $60.11 billion.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: Swiss watches, chocolates set to get cheaper for IndiansAt $41.40 billion, India's merchandise exports in February were the highest in 11 months. The last time they were higher was in March 2023, when they come in at $41.96 billion. Imports, meanwhile, were at a four-month high.
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 02:08 PM IST with headline  Aswath Damodaran: ‘Investing is an act of faith’ is: 
 - Professor Aswath Damodaran of New York University is probably the world’s pre-eminent academic expert on equity valuation. His Musings on Markets blog is widely followed on Wall Street, and his views on companies from Tesla to Netflix are much debated. He also puts his money where his mouth is, investing personally based on his assessments of corporate value. He spoke to Unhedged last week.Unhedged: Do you think the S&P 500 is fairly valued right now?Damodaran: There ar
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 02:20 PM IST with headline  Electoral bonds: BJP top receiver at Rs 6,061 crore, TMC 2nd with Rs 1,610 crore is: 
 On the whole, 24 political parties received donations through electoral bonds over the last five years amounting to Rs 12,769 crore. The Bharatiya Janata Party was by far the biggest beneficiary of the electoral bonds scheme, receiving Rs 6,061 crore as political donations in the last five years, according to data submitted by State Bank of India (SBI) to the Election Commission of India of March 14. This amounts to 48 percent of all electoral bonds encashed by political parties since the start of 2019-20 and before it was ruled unconstitutional by the Supreme Court earlier this year.At second place is Trinamool Congress, which mopped up Rs 1,610 crore, followed by the Indian National Congress at Rs 1,422 crore.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: From lottery to milkshake, top 20 electoral bond donors gave nearly Rs 6,000 croreRounding off the top five are Bharat Rashtra Samithi, formerly Telangana Rashtra Samithi, with Rs 1,215 crore and the Biju Janata Dal with Rs 776 crore.
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 12:39 PM IST with headline  Tim Harford: Why Swifties, holidaymakers and the hygienic should cheer for surge pricing is: 
 If Taylor Swift is playing in Seattle one weekend, it would be a good idea for people who aren’t Swifties to holiday either on a different weekend or in a different city. The “Wendy’s Dave’s Triple” is a fast-food offering that stacks two possessives and three hamburgers. I am not sure how easy it is to swallow in either regard, but what has really been sticking in people’s throats is the prospect of surge pricing at the Wendy’s fast-food chain.A few weeks ago, the new CEO of Wendy’s announced that the company would be installing new digital menu displays that would allow “dynamic pricing” — that is, changing th
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 12:37 PM IST with headline  What is the role of the Financial Intelligence Unit? is: 
 FIU-IND was established in 2004 While it does not really act in the shadows, it does not seek headlines either, but the Financial Intelligence Unit-India was in the news recently when it imposed a penalty of Rs 5.49 crore on Paytm Payments Bank on March 1 for violating norms pertaining to money-laundering. So what is this office? Since it was set up in 2004, FIU-IND has significantly strengthened the country's anti-money-laundering and counter-terrorist financing framework. By serving as a centralised hub for financial intelligence, FIU-IND enables proactive detection and disruption of illicit financial activities, thereby safeguarding the integrity of the nation's financial system.Establishment Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdFIU-IND was established in 2004 as a specialised agency under the Ministry of Finance. Its primary mandate is to serve as the central national agency responsible for receiving, processing, analysing and disseminating information related to suspicious financial transactions. These transactions could be indicative of money laundering, terrorist financing or other illegal activities.Under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), certain categories of organisations are required to register with FIU-IND as reporting entities. These reporting entities are mandated to comply with various regulations on anti-money laundering and combating terror financing (AML/CTF) and are tasked with reporting certain types of financial transactions to FIU-IND. These include banks and financial institutions, stockbrokers and depository participants, payment system operators, insurance companies, mutual funds and asset management companies, among others.Earlier notices
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 02:20 PM IST with headline  India needs to rally behind its edtech startups, beginning with Byju’s is: 
 New-age companies like Byju’s can significantly move the needle in ensuring that students can consistently gain access to standardised quality education on a seamless basis. It is still unclear who finally wins the battle for control of edtech startup Byju’s - the company's founder Byju Raveendran or the marquee investors who want him out of the firm.Seen from a broader perspective, though, which side eventually has its way in the ongoing tug-of-war is much less important than Byju’s remaining on solid ground. Since the only thing that should really matter is that the founder-investor confrontation does not come in the way of the startup’s ability to make a significant difference in India’s education arena and in showcasing the nation’s startup prowess.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAdding Value If there was such a thing as systemically important startups in India, Byju’s would find a prominent place in such an arrangement. Not just for the immense value that it adds to the country’s education sector by enhancing education accessibility but also for the sheer weight it adds to the startup arena when it comes to showcasing how far India has travelled in the startup domain. At one point, Byju’s was India’s most valued startup enjoying a $22 billion valuation. As of 2023, India had more than 100,000 registered startups.As the world’s most populous country with its stated commitment to the ‘development for all’ principle, India needs promising edtech startups like Byju’s to remain in a good place. The reasons for that are simple.
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 11:38 AM IST with headline  Japan Carmakers: Speed up consolidation to compete with China’s EVs is: 
 nissan-ev Media reports that rival Japanese automakers Nissan Motor Co and Honda Motor Co are potentially entering into a partnership feel so unlikely it’s as if Messi and Ronaldo are set to play on the same football team, or that Taylor Swift is about to drop an album with Kanye West.The automakers have jostled for years for second place behind Toyota Motor Corp. The two rejected out of hand merger talks that had been proposed by government officials five years ago, the Financial Timesreported in 2020. According to the newspaper, authorities were prompted to propose it by the state of the Japanese auto industry and worries about a potential Nissan collapse.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThis week’s story is much less ambitious, involving just a potential partnership on electric-vehicle procurement and development. But the need to concentrate forces may now be even more acute, with both companies’ sales in China in freefall as customers in the world’s largest auto market switch to EVs.I don’t hew to the commonly held idea that Japan has been “slow” to shift — as sales growth slows, we’re seeing more and more evidence that the mad dash to an electric-only future was likely a strategic error, and that fully electric cars will be just one part of where the auto industry goes from here.But it’s undeniable that the industry is in a state of rapid flux. China sees an opportunity to dominate, and just as it did with sectors from steel to solar panels, it’s unlikely to always play fair. Huge investment in technology is needed, from batteries to automated driving systems. And Taiwan-based Hon Hai Precision Industry Co, better known as iPhone maker Foxconn,wants to turn making vehicles into a commodity just like smartphones.
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 10:50 AM IST with headline  The trouble with narratives like Japan is back, China is over is: 
 Does the current mood exaggerate China’s shortcomings and give enough space to things that it’s doing well? (Source: Bloomberg/Getty Images) Japan is back, China is over. Only a few years ago, such an assertion would have been dismissed out of hand. The latter was on the road to economic dominance and the former languished, characterised by endless stimulus that produced little tangible benefit, and doomed by a shrinking population. This narrative was overdue for a correction, and an alternative has finally arrived. Unfortunately, it shares some of the flaws of the old story.The contemporary crush on Japan has much to commend it. Wages are gathering steam, the Nikkei 225 stock index recently surpassed the peak reached in the late 1980s, when the nation was seen as having some magic sauce that drove its ascent, and the central bank is preparing to end the world's last remaining experiment in negative interest rates. Even the difficult demographics look reasonable relative to Singapore, South Korea — and China. Like a classic market overshoot, few people are eager to speak ill of newly cool Japan.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe appetite for good news has reached almost absurd levels. Bank of Japan officials are called hawkish for desiring to push borrowing costs from a bit less than sero to around sero. Such a step, which may come as soon as next week, is rich in symbolism. The development is also miles away from the hiking cycle embarked upon by the Federal Reserve or the European Central Bank. Yes, deflation is behind and inflation is now hovering around the 2 percent target. But that is mild compared with the clip of price increases in the US, which exceeded 9 percent at one point in 2022. Context of this kind doesn't get aired enough. Japan's challenges haven't gone away, just as the country wasn't totally washed up during the so-called lost decades.The troubles in China's economy have been building for a while. The country was enduring a long-term slowdown even before efforts to control Covid produced a rare decline in gross domestic product in the first months of 2020. But people had fallen in love with a China that possessed unique attributes and had enjoyed a historic rise in living standards. It took time for this vision to dislodge. When the idea of an invincible China did take a fall last year, it did so with a vengeance.A recent statistical anecdote about Germany and Japan is revealing of the current mood. When Tokyo first reported GDP numbers for the fourth quarter of 2023, the data showed not only that Japan slipped into a recession, subsequently revised away, but that the country had ceded the No. 3 place in the world economic league to Germany. The change rated a perfunctory mention in many news stories, probably because nobody is impressed by the current form of Europe's commercial power. Germany has experienced pretty stagnant growth lately.
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 10:48 AM IST with headline  Indian economy has made it to the launchpad. It still needs a spark is: 
 The Indian economy had apparently grown at an annualised rate of 8.4 percent. As India prepares for elections this spring, confidence about the country’s prospects seems ubiquitous. The country has just finalised a new trade agreement; it’s with a small trading bloc composed of Norway, Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Iceland, but the headline number for new foreign investment it commits to bringing in, $100 billion, is nevertheless eye-catching. The stock markets are at record highs, and most expect them to rise even higher.This year, Indian debt will begin to be included in global bond indexes, starting with JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s products in June, followed by the Bloomberg Emerging Market Local Currency Government Index from January 2025. (Disclaimer: Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News, offers index products for various asset classes through Bloomberg Index Services Ltd.) And, when last quarter’s growth numbers were announced in the past fortnight, analysts were startled to see that the Indian economy had apparently grown at an annualised rate of 8.4 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThere are certainly solid grounds for optimism. India’s macroeconomic stability is impressive compared to many of its peers. Pandemic spending wasn’t excessive. The fiscal deficit has been steadily shrinking as a proportion of gross domestic product. The rupee has been remarkably stable. And “core” inflation, which excludes food and fuel prices, has eased to 3.3 percent year-on-year, according to data released this week.Some of this stability is hard-won, born of tough choices that the government in New Delhi has made. Fuel taxes are kept high to feed government revenue, for example, and an inflation target has been institutionalised for the country’s central bank.Yet, even if some investors and sell-side analysts are touting India as “the best structural growth opportunity in emerging markets, if not the world,” it is worth looking beyond the hype to the real reasons for some of these surging indicators, to judge whether India’s growth is assured in coming years.
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 10:50 AM IST with headline  Will a new pharmaceutical marketing code succeed where earlier attempts failed? is: 
 When was the last time you heard a pharma association pull up a member for even serious violations of the law? Highlights:The government has notified a circular that prescribes a uniform marketing code to be followed by pharmaceutical companiesThis will be yet another attempt to regulate the practices adopted by companies to push their medicines to doctors for prescribing to patientsHowever, the code is a voluntary one that industry associations are expected to hold their members accountable toLack of legal enforcement of the code means that it may suffer the same fate as earlier attempts to rein i
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 10:12 AM IST with headline  Mid and small cap lure frays a bit: What's next for investors? is: 
 A decisive move past 22,300-zone for Nifty can anticipate further movement in the coming days, say analysts HighlightsSharp rise in annualised returns of small, mid-cap funds are attracting investors by drovesAUM of mid-cap and small cap funds has risen by 2.5 times and 5 times respectively in past four yearsSmall, mid-caps with low liquidity are seen as most risky and require careful watchingA correction in small cap cannot be ruled outInvestors must look at quality of small caps to determine whether to hold on or exi
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 10:49 AM IST with headline  Five ways India’s next growth cycle is different is: 
 The size of the Indian economy is expected to rise 1.9 times to $6.7 trillion by fiscal 2031 from $3.6 trillion this fiscal. By Amish Mehta In the three decades leading up to the Covid-19 pandemic, India’s gross domestic product (GDP) grew at an annual average of 6.2 percent. The recovery after the pandemic was swift, and the country has grown faster than 7 percent in the past three fiscals.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThis fiscal growth is foreseen at 7.6 percent, above the consensus estimates of the past.But moderation looms. High interest rates and a gradual reduction in the fiscal impulse to growth — because the government has to pursue fiscal consolidation — would slow GDP growth to 6.8 percent next fiscal.Still good enough to keep the fastest-growing large economy crown.
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 08:40 AM IST with headline  MC Pro Inside Edge: HNIs harvest tax losses with a smile, DB QIP’s reality, MFs clean up portfolios, double whammy for merchant bankers is: 
 Tax holidayCut your losses and let your winners run is one of the popular stock market adages. High net worth individuals seem to swear by this rule even while planning for taxes. Having earned handsome returns from their winners (even if much of it is still on paper), HNIs are clinging on to them in the hope these stocks will continue to rise. At the same time, they have been dumping stocks that have gone nowhere ove
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 07:23 AM IST with headline  Commodity Trade: A bullish Marubozu pattern seen at the breakout in Crude Oil is: 
 Crude Oi
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 07:14 AM IST with headline  Unicorns to add $1 trillion to economy by 2030, generate 50 million jobs: CII study is: 
 Unicorns to add $1 trillion to economy by 2030, generate 50 million jobs: CII study New unicorns are likely to add USD 1 trillion to the Indian economy, which would reach USD 7 trillion size by 2030, and add 50 million new jobs, according to a report released by industry body CII on Thursday.Startup firms valued over USD 1 billion are categorised as unicorns.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe report 'Unicorn 2.0: Adding the Next Trillion' has been prepared with McKinsey & Company as the knowledge partner, the chamber said.The CII report introduces an ambitious 'Unicorn 2.0' scenario, envisioning the startup ecosystem's potential to add USD 1 trillion to India's estimated USD 7 trillion economy by FY30, thereby creating over 50 million jobs.Sectors such as retail and e-commerce, next-gen financial services, manufacturing, and SaaS and digital are poised to drive massive growth in the coming years.
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 06:20 AM IST with headline  Options Trade: A non-directional options strategy setup in HDFC Bank is: 
 HDFC Ban
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 06:16 AM IST with headline  Cash Trade: Bharti Airtel breaks out of a cup-and-handle trend continuation pattern
 
The news published on the date March 15, 2024 01:12 AM IST with headline  Morgan Stanley sees India investments growing faster than consumption in current cycle is: 
 Morgan Stanley economists see India’s Gross Fixed Capital Formation, a proxy for investments, rising to 36 percent of GDP in 2026-27. Investments in India are set to grow faster than consumption for the next few years, according to Morgan Stanley economists, who see Gross Fixed Capital Formation (GFCF) rising to 36 percent of GDP in 2026-27."Real GFCF growth continued to hold strong at 10.5 percent in 4Q23 (October-December 2023), staying above the pre-Covid 2017-18 average of 9.6 percent," Morgan Stanley economists said in a report on March 13.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: What does 12-year-low core inflation say about India's growth story?"On the flip side, private consumption (growth) is still relatively weak, tracking at just 3.5 percent in 4Q23, below the pre-Covid 2017-18 average of 6.5 percent," they added.
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 07:37 PM IST with headline  PTC India Financial scouting for MD, CEO amid intensified regulatory scrutiny is: 
 PTC India Financial has been under the scanner for over two years after three independent directors quit citing corporate governance issues. Trade Watchlist Portfolio Message Set Alert livebselivenselive Volume Todays L/H More × PTC India Financial Services (PFS) is on the lookout for a new Managing Director (MD) and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) amid intensified regulatory scrutiny, after the attempt to appoint one in 2023 did not work out.In October 2023, the board had given an in-principle approval to a candidate but he withdrew after engaging with the company for five months due to delays and alleged interference by the current management.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe non-banking financial subsidiary of PTC India has been under a regulatory scanner for over two years since three independent directors resigned from the PFS board flagging concerns over corporate governance issues. The position of MD and CEO has not been filled for almost nine months, since Pawan Singh stepped down after being forced to go on leave following a Reserve Bank of India (RBI) directive.“The recruitment process is being handled by an experienced HR consulting Firm. We expect a good response to the advertisement.,” PFS said in a response to a detailed query from Moneycontrol.PFS has invited applications from potential candidates to select an MD and CEO, the last date for which is March 15. The appointment is critical since Mahendra Lodha, the company’s Director (Finance) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO), who was handling the additional charge of MD and CEO since June 2023, has resigned and his last day at work is March 15.
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 03:08 PM IST with headline  Battle over state finances heats up as Kerala rejects another offer from Centre is: 
 The Supreme Court will next hear Kerala’s plea against the central government on March 21. Kerala has rejected yet another offer by the Centre, allowing it an advanced and additional borrowing space of Rs 5,000 crore in the current fiscal, on the grounds that it is insufficient. The first offer was made in February 2024. Kerala seeks advance borrowing of Rs 15,000 crore.The dispute between the two sides reached the doors of the top court of the country in December after bilateral talks didn't yield results. The Supreme Court will next hear Kerala’s plea against the central government over the states’ borrowing limit on March 21.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdMoneycontrol explains what round two of the tussle between the two sides entailed.Documents sourced by Moneycontrol showed that the government of India modified its offer to Kerala, ready to give its consent for the state to borrow Rs 5,000 crore now instead of on April 1, 2024, subject to certain conditions.However, the Pinarayi Vijayan-led Kerala government told the Supreme Court that “Rs 5,000 crore would not take it anywhere.”
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 03:49 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | ‘Tis the time to cherry-pick stocks is: 
 It is time to check for hammered stocks that hold value and promise in future. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAfter all the ranting about a battered stock market and Indian equities being overvalued, Thursday seems to have brought back a smile on the investor’s face. By noon, the BSE Sensex was up by around 490 points and the Nifty 50 by around 200 points. Alarmingly, while the benchmark indices are up by about 1 percent, the small and midcap indices, which fell consistently last week, are up by about 2-3 per cent.The voices of doom seem to be fading already. What must a retail investor, especially a newbie in equities, do? This question comes to mind given that February marked the third consecutive month of over 40 lakh retail demat accounts being opened. So, it’s a vicious cycle -- more accounts bring more money to fire up markets and rising indices lure more retail investors into D-Street because of the Fear of Missing Out (FOMO) factor.All macroeconomic data point to India being a great long-term growth story that will gain momentum once the general elections are behind us. So, it may be fool-hardy to unwind completely from equity investments in your portfolio. As investment guru Warren Buffett said – “buy the dip”. It is time to check for hammered stocks that hold value and promise in future.
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 02:21 PM IST with headline  Oodles of instant noodles: how a global favourite became an economic red flag is: 
 Instant noodles sit among the most potent weapons ever devised in the unending struggle against starvation. Leo LewisIf the entire (cooked) length of instant noodles sold around the world in a single year were laid out in a line, the resulting 6.2bn kilometre giga-noodle would stretch well beyond Pluto and into the depths of space. It is a fact as miserable as it is marvellous.Instant noodles sit among the most potent weapons ever devised in the unending struggle against starvation: a product that towers, among processed foods, at the extreme value end o
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 02:21 PM IST with headline  India's wholesale inflation edges down to 0.20% in February is: 
 Wholesale inflation stood at 3.85 percent in February 2023. India's wholesale inflation rate edged down to 0.20 percent in February, data released by the commerce ministry on March 14 showed.Wholesale Price Index (WPI) inflation stood at 0.2 percent in January and 3.85 percent in February 2023.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAt 0.20 percent, the February wholesale inflation print is the lowest in four months. The last time WPI inflation was lower was in October 2023, when it came in at -0.26 percent. So far in 2023-24, WPI inflation has averaged -0.8 percent.Wholesale prices increased at a slower pace in February even though food inflation rose to 4.09 percent from 3.79 percent in January, pushed up by wheat inflation jumping to 2.34 percent after being at -3.14 percent in the first month of 2024. Pulses inflation, too, rose further to 18.48 percent.
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 11:55 AM IST with headline  Private credit has had its 15 minutes of fame is: 
 PE’s golden goose is loosing its shine. (Source: Bloomberg) Just as private credit is becoming an asset class of its own and private equity houses are finding a new revenue stream away from their bread-and-butter buyout businesses, this burgeoning part of leveraged finance is losing steam.Direct lending has been its crowning achievement. Credit was not only extended to smaller companies that had limited access to public markets, but to back big buyout deals that in the past relied on banks to arrange syndicated loans or junk bond issues. Firms such as HPS Investment Partners Llc, a spinoff from JPMorgan Asset Management in 2016, were among private lenders that single-handedly underwrote billion-dollar loans. Last year, direct lending funds managed more than $550 billion, up from $95 billion a decade earlier, according to PitchBook. Investors in these funds, in turn, were able to earn 12 percent returns.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBut the conditions that led to such huge success are unwinding. After two years of ceding turf to direct lenders, investment banks, which are the public credit markets’ gatekeepers, are striking back.So far this year, 21 companies managed to refinance $8.3 billion of debt that was previously provided by private lenders via broadly syndicated loans, data from PitchBook show. Among those was Caliber Collision Inc, a B-rated auto-repair chain owned by private equity firm Hellman & Friedman Llc. The company retired expensive second-lien debt in January, using part of the $4 billion proceeds from bond and loan sales.Banks are reclaiming their market share in leveraged buyout, too. Last month, JPMorgan Chase & Co arranged a $5 billion debt deal for KKR & Co’s purchase of healthcare tech company Cotiviti Inc, upstaging private lenders.
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 11:32 AM IST with headline  It’s too late to China-proof the lithium supply chain is: 
 A lithium partner rather than a rival. (Source:Bloomberg) In a world where electric vehicles and utility-scale batteries are taking over, it would be nice to not depend on a geopolitical rival for your most important raw material.That’s been the thinking of leaders from developed countries, who’ve been seeking ways to China-proof the market for lithium, the light metal that’s essential for high-performance rechargeable power packs.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“Parts of our key supply chains, including for clean energy, are currently over-concentrated in China,” US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said earlier this month during a visit to Chile, home to the largest lithium reserves. Second-ranked Australia last May entered a compact with the US to ensure reliable supplies of such critical minerals, with Canberra in October putting A$2 billion ($1.3 billion) into a financing facility to support exports.There’s just one problem with all these plans: They’re coming nearly a decade too late. If rich democracies wanted to build a clean-energy industry free of Beijing’s influence, they should have had their checkbooks out when miners and processors were starved of cash during the 2010s. The global lithium industry is so interwoven with Chinese capital now that it’s going to be impossible to unpick.Take Albemarle Corp., the Charlotte, North Carolina-based miner whose processing plant Yellen visited during her trip to Chile. Its most important asset is a 49 percent stake in Greenbushes, a pit in Western Australia that’s the world’s largest deposit of lithium ore. Majority control, however, has been ultimately held for more than a decade by Chengdu-based Tianqi Lithium Corp.
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 02:03 PM IST with headline  Fitch revises India's FY25 GDP growth forecast to 7% from 6.5% is: 
 Fitch revises India's FY25 GDP growth forecast to 7% from 6.5% Global ratings agency Fitch Ratings raised India's FY25 GDP growth forecast to 7 percent from 6.5 percent earlier as it expects the economy to continue its strong expansion.Fitch expects 50 bps rate cut by the Reserve Bank of India from July to December and foresees India's CPI inflation gradually declining to 4 percent by the end of 2024. RBI has kept the repo rate unchanged at 6.5 percent for the last six consecutive meetings and has reiterated its commitment to reaching the 4 percent inflation target on a sustainable basis.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Prospects for EM (ex China) have also brightened, particularly in India, where we now expect growth to reach 7.8 percent in the fiscal year ending March 2024 (FY24) and 7 percent in FY25, both sizeable upward revisions. With GDP growth having exceeded 8 percent for three consecutive quarters, we expect an easing in growth momentum in the final quarter of the current fiscal year, implying an estimate of 7.8 percent for growth in FY23-24," said Fitch."Domestic demand, especially investment, will be the main driver of growth, amid sustained levels of business and consumer confidence," Fitch said."Our forecasts imply that growth in the short term will outpace the economy's estimated potential, and that the pace of growth of activity will then moderate towards trend in FY25."
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 09:00 AM IST with headline  Here an SKM, there an SKM, and the threat to farmers’ unity is: 
 The divisions among the farmers is not to their benefit. Farmers are back in the national capital. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) had given a call to farmers across the country to congregate at the historic Ramlila Maidan on March 14 for a “mahapanchayat” to pressure the Union government to deliver on their promises on MSP, crop damage compensation and other agrarian issues.Even as the SKM is organising this grand meeting, its splinter faction which is known as SKM (non-political) is holding fort at the Shambhu and Khanauri borders that separate Punjab from Haryana. Questions are being asked if there are schisms between the two farmers’ groups.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOne can assume there is a widening gulf, just by reading the writing on the wall or even their press releases. The splinter faction overtly calls itself the SKM (non-political) or SKM(NP) because it wants to distinguish itself from the larger body of farmers’ unions – SKM though both groups are essentially demanding the same things.SKM And SKM (Non-Political)The reason for the schism is believed to be the strong non-political stance of SKM(NP). The SKM (non-political) wanted to distinguish themselves from the earlier farm leaders who had quit SKM and contested in the Punjab elections.
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 08:53 AM IST with headline  Is the $100 bn FDI target under the India-EFTA trade agreement achievable? is: 
 Cutting-edge sectors like robotics, automation and precision engineering will require considerable FDI, and investments therein would greatly benefit India’s medium sized companies particularly in the engineering industry HighlightsThe EFTA is unique in that it incorporates a FDI target of $100 billion into India although this is not a governmental commitmentWill this investment materialise is the question, considering India is opening up its market to these four countriesThere is adequate scope for India to benefit from the EFTA if it manages to secure investments in critical areas of interest such as green energy for example and it leads to technology transferThe EFTA countries will attemp
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 07:45 AM IST with headline  The market realises small may not necessarily be beautiful is: 
 Putting it in practical terms, most small companies are very vulnerable Wednesday’s crash in small and midcap stocks has been attributed to the Sebi chief’s remarks on froth in small caps, a crackdown by regulators on errant intermediaries and, of course, on the high valuations of small cap stocks that have soared on the back of a buying frenzy by retail investors. Many analysts have been warning about the unrealistic expectations from small cap stocks for quite some time. It was a bubble in search of a pin.Bu
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 06:04 AM IST with headline  Options Trade | A non-directional options strategy setup in Kotak Mahindra Bank is: 
 Kotak Mahindra Ban
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 06:01 AM IST with headline  Cash Trade: INTELLECT trades strong in a weak market
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 06:00 AM IST with headline  Futures Trade: LTI Mindtree price action shows a classic downtrend
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 10:51 PM IST with headline  Stocks flat, US yields edge higher ahead of data is: 
 Stocks flat, US yields edge higher ahead of data A gauge of global stocks was little changed on Wednesday, pausing after equities in Europe and the U.S. hit record levels in the prior session, as investors looked to the next round of data on inflation and consumer health.Stocks in Europe and the S&P 500 closed at records in the prior session, shaking off a slightly hotter than expected reading on U.S. consumer inflation (CPI), with the S&P 500 also getting a lift from a surge in Oracle shares after its quarterly earnings.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe inflation data did little to alter expectations that the Federal Reserve will cut rates by at least 25 basis points (bps) at its June meeting, currently at 65.5% according to CME's FedWatch Tool.Investors will get another round of inflation data in the form of the U.S. producer price index (PPI) on Thursday, along with data on consumer spending and the labor market, before next week's policy meeting for the Fed."Out of earnings season the focus will shift back to the Federal Reserve, inflation readouts, just how hot the labor market is," said Keith Buchanan, senior portfolio manager at GLOBALT Investments in Atlanta.
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 07:53 PM IST with headline  More than two-thirds of Indians better off compared to 2019, optimistic about future: News18 poll is: 
 The survey, India's biggest opinion poll, covers a sample size of over 1.18 lakh eligible voters across 21 states and different demographic backgrounds. There seems to be a high level of optimism in the economy, with two out of every three Indians polled saying their economic situation is now better than what it was five years ago. This is one of the key findings from the News18 mega opinion poll.The survey, which received 1.19 lakh responses, saw 67 percent declaring that they were situated better financially than they were five years ago, with 68 percent of males and 64 percent of females agreeing with the same. It was a near-even split when it came to the rural-urban front, with 67 percent and 66 percent, respectively, echoing the view.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: Jobs, prices, safety top priorities for voters ahead of polls, finds News18 surveyData released on February 29 showed India's GDP grew by an impressive 8.4 percent in the last quarter of 2023, far higher than any forecast. Before that, on February 24, the statistics ministry's latest Consumer Expenditure Survey showed per capita monthly consumption expenditure in rural areas was 40 percent higher in 2022-23 (August-July) in real terms compared to 2011-12 (July-June).
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 07:50 PM IST with headline  Jobs, prices, and safety top priorities for voters ahead of Lok Sabha polls: News18 poll is: 
 The survey, India's biggest opinion poll, covers a sample size of over 1.18 lakh eligible voters across 21 states and different demographic backgrounds. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's key promise when he was first voted to power in 2014 was about jobs. As he makes a bid for a third term in the 2024 general election, jobs continue to be the focal point for Indian voters. This is one of the findings of a News18 mega opinion poll conducted across 21 states between February 12 and March 1.The survey, which polled 1.19 lakh people, saw 56 percent of respondents list jobs as one of the three most important factors when it comes to determining which party they would vote for in the general election.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: Most Indians support women’s reservation in Parliament, state assemblies – News18 pollAt 47 percent, inflation was the second-most cited factor, with law and order close on its heels at 46 percent.While India is the world's fastest growing large economy and is expected to clock a GDP growth rate of 7.6 percent in 2023-24, questions have been raised in some quarters about whether the growth has been uniform and if enough jobs are being created. Critics often cite the huge number of applicants for a limited number of government posts as a sign of insufficient number of jobs being generated. But the government's latest Periodic Labour Force Survey showed the all-India unemployment rate fell to 5.0 percent in 2023 from 5.7 percent the previous year.
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 05:05 PM IST with headline  Inflows Into Index-Eligible India Bonds Set to Hit $10 Billion is: 
 Inflows Into Index-Eligible India Bonds Set to Hit $10 Billion Foreign inflows into India’s sovereign bond market are closing in on the $10 billion mark ahead of the country’s inclusion in the JPMorgan Chase & Co’s emerging markets debt index.Investments into index-eligible Fully Accessible Route bonds have risen by 812.18 billion rupees ($9.8 billion) since the announcement in September, data from the Clearing Corp. of India show. Inclusion starts in phases from June.Story continues below AdvertisementThe biggest purchases are in the shorter bonds maturing between 2026 and 2030, the data show. The highest foreign holding is in the 7.37% 2028 note, accounting for 20.8% of the outstanding.“Rupee sovereign bonds are poised for further gains on strong foreign inflows, largely front-running the upcoming bond index inclusion,” analysts at DBS Bank led by Radhika Rao wrote in a note.Bloomberg Index Services Ltd. will also include some India bonds in its emerging market local currency index starting next year. Bloomberg LP is the parent company of Bloomberg Index Services Ltd., which administers indexes that compete with those from other service providers.The yield on the benchmark 10-year bond slipped to 7.01% on Monday, the lowest since June
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 04:30 PM IST with headline  More than half of major Indian states are facing higher rural inflation vs urban is: 
 India's rural inflation for the previous month stood at 5.34 percent, significantly higher than the urban CPI rate that came in at 4.78 percent. In line with the all-India trend, more than half of the 22 major states and union territories faced higher rural inflation compared to urban areas in February 2024, according to a government release. The release covered 22 major states and union territories that have a population of over 50 lakh as per 2011 census data.India's rural inflation for the previous month stood at 5.34 percent, significantly higher than the urban Consumer Price Index (CPI) rate of 4.78 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTen out of the 22 major states and union territories registered rural inflation rates higher than the national average.Data released by the Statistics Ministry on March 12 showed that India's combined (rural and urban) headline retail inflation rate was largely unchanged at 5.09 percent in February compared to 5.10 percent in January.While CPI inflation remained within the Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) tolerance range of 2 percent to 6 percent for the sixth consecutive month, it has now spent 53 months in a row above the medium-term target of 4 percent.
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 03:51 PM IST with headline  Rupee logs worst day in 3 weeks as outflows, weak Asian peers weigh is: 
 Rupee logs worst day in 3 weeks as outflows, weak Asian peers weigh The Indian rupee logged its worst day against the dollar in nearly three weeks on Wednesday, pressured by foreign outflows, while weakness in regional peers following hotter-than-expected inflation data in the United States also weighed.The rupee closed at 82.8625 to the dollar, down from its previous close of 82.7675, recording its biggest single-session decline since Feb. 23.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe local unit was under pressure due to an outflow of around $2 billion pertaining to British American Tobacco's stake sale in Indian conglomerate ITC, traders said."The outflows because of a block deal is, of course, a temporary blip," said Jigar Trivedi, senior research analyst – currencies and commodities at Reliance Securities.However, considering the weakness in the equity markets and the trend in the dollar index, the rupee may weaken to 83.00 and eventually to 83.20, he added.
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 02:21 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | The road to stability is paved with penalties is: 
 Investors know that there is more coming from regulators and the market is understandably nervous. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOver the past weeks, India’s regulators have kicked into serious action to snuff out potential fires in the financial markets. The Reserve Bank of India’s clean-up that began with hiking risk weights on unsecured lending last year continued with the banking regulator now asking card issuers to give customers the choice to pick networks. It also increased oversight on co-branded credit cards and media reports state that the RBI is increasingly antsy on how such cards operate. The RBI is also said to be looking at the peer to peer lending space, which has grown by leaps and bounds.On the other side of the financial pond, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has sent out warnings to investors standing to lose money because of froth in the smallcap space. SEBI asked mutual funds to moderate flows into small and midcap funds and rebalance their portfolios. SEBI Chief Madhabi Puri Buch said, “We see signs of manipulation in the SME segment.” Buch is worried about increasing fraudulent activities that inflate stock prices and, in some cases, even subscriptions into initial public offers. For the past year, SEBI has been tightening the screws over the equity markets, dousing potential fires that could, if unchecked, level even big portfolios.While the two regulators have separately done their jobs, together too the RBI and SEBI have worked on bringing to light misconduct and misdemeanours in markets. The RBI has cracked down on several lenders, levying monetary penalties and at times even restricting business operations. Investment banking group JM Financial bore the brunt of both the regulators. The RBI banned JM Financial Products, a non-bank lending firm of the group, from lending against shares and bonds, including for the purpose of IPO bidding. SEBI, on its part, barred the company from acting as a lead manager of any public issue of debt securities.
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 04:02 PM IST with headline  What does 12-year-low core inflation say about India's growth story? is: 
 Core inflation is seen as a proxy for demand in the economy as it excludes the volatile price changes seen in food and fuel items and thus provides a better understanding of underlying inflation developments. As was expected, India's headline retail inflation rate remained steady in February, coming in at 5.09 percent as against 5.10 percent the previous month. However, core inflation – inflation excluding food items and fuel – continued its downward trend and fell to 3.3 percent, as per Moneycontrol calculations. This, economists say, is the lowest core inflation has been since January 2012.Of course, ways to measure core inflation can differ. In essence, core inflation strips out the volatile food and fuel items and focuses on the price changes of other items. Some economists like to go one step further and remove certain fuel and metal items from the 'miscellaneous' category of the Consumer Price Index (CPI) that includes household goods and services, transport and communication, and health and education related items, among others.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: Headline inflation should soon come down to core, says Ashima GoyalORGANISATIONFEB CORE CPI INFLATION ESTIMATEMotilal Oswal Financial Services3.3%Nomura3.3%QuantEco Research3.3%ICICI Securities3.34%CareEdge3.34%India Ratings and Research3.34%Deutsche Bank3.37%State Bank of India3.37%Barclays3.38%Emkay Global Financial Services3.39%IDFC First Bank3.4%CRISIL3.4%Acuité Ratings & Research3.5%ICRA3.5%Anand Rathi Share and Stock Brokers3.7%And while the differing approaches can give slightly different core inflation numbers, the trend remains the same. But there is no single interpretation of the continuous decline in core inflation."Weak core inflation at a time of strong growth is a conundrum," economists Paras Jasrai and Sunil Kumar Sinha of India Ratings and Research noted.Growth has indeed been strong. The statistics ministry surprised everyone when it said on February 29 that India's GDP growth in the last quarter of 2023 was a blockbuster 8.4 percent, significantly higher than all forecasts.
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 02:42 PM IST with headline  No plans to sell SUUTI stake in ITC, says DIPAM Secy is: 
 No plans to sell SUUTI stake in ITC, says DIPAM Secy The government has no plans to sell its part stake in ITC, held through SUUTI, amid BAT paring its stake through a block deal in the Kolkata-based FMCG player, a top official said on Wednesday.As on December 31, 2023, Specified Undertaking of Unit Trust of India (SUUTI) held around 7.82 per cent stake in the diversified conglomerate ITC.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"There is no such plan at the moment," Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey told PTI.SUUTI last pared a stake in ITC in February 2017, when two per cent equity was sold at a price of Rs 291.95 per share via block deal.In a block deal, two parties make a transaction involving shares worth at least Rs 5 crore. Block deal transactions are conducted in a separate trading window.
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 04:01 PM IST with headline  Losing stocks outnumber gainers 9:1, experts say mood turning bearish is: 
 So far in March, Sensex and Nifty rose by 0.6% and 0.4%, while BSE MidCap and SmallCap declined by 3.5% and 9.3%. The advance-decline ratio, a comparison of how many stocks are rising to the number of stocks that are falling, has stayed below 0.4 for the third consecutive day.A ratio of one means that for every stock that is rising, one stock is declining. A ratio of less than one means more shares are declining than those that are gaining.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAnalysts said this indicates that the mood is increasingly becoming bearish. So far on March 13, on the BSE, out of 3,914 stocks, 394 rose, 3,461 fell, and 59 remained unchanged. Today's ratio stands at 0.13, compared to 0.28 on March 12 and 0.39 on March 11. In March, only four days recorded a ratio above 1, with the remaining days trading below 1. So far in March, it has hit 0.7, the lowest level since March 2020 compared to 0.84 in February.Analysts said the recent correction in mid-, small- and micro-cap stocks amid concerns over high valuations and the recent regulatory actions are making potential buyers wary. The small- and micro-cap stocks have been witnessing the most selling pressure.The starting point for the selloff was SEBI’s directive to AMFI, warning about a froth in small- and mid-cap stocks and calling for moderation in small- and mid-cap schemes. But the stocks had begun to weaken even before that development.
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 04:02 PM IST with headline  Coal Ministry will fulfill 874 mn tonnes coal requirement for power sector in FY25: Prahlad Joshi is: 
 Coal Ministry will fulfill 874 mn tonnes coal requirement for power sector in FY25: Prahlad Joshi The coal ministry is geared up to fulfill the 874 million tonnes coal demand for the power sector in financial year 2024-25, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi said on Wednesday.For the financial year ending March 31, the Power Ministry had placed a requirement of 821 million tonnes, Joshi told PTI on the sidelines of the release of 'PM Gati Shakti National Master Plan in Coal Sector' booklet.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTheir (power ministry's) demand has been met. They had asked for 821 million tonnes and it has been supplied, the Minister said."For FY25, the power ministry has asked for 874 million tonnes of coal. We will fulfill this requirement also. We are going to cross 1 billion tonne coal production by this March," he said.The share of imported coal for blending purposes has gone down this fiscal compared to last financial year, Joshi said.
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 01:40 PM IST with headline  Vegetable oil imports down 13% in February to 9.75 lakh tonne: SEA is: 
 Vegetable oil imports down 13% in February to 9.75 lakh tonne: SEA India's vegetable oils import fell 13 per cent year-on-year in February to nearly 9.75 lakh tonne, according to industry data.In a statement on Wednesday, Solvent Extractors' Association of India (SEA) said the import of vegetable oils (comprising edible oils and non-edible oils) during February stood at 9,74,85 tonne as compared to 11,14,481 tonne in the year-ago period.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOut of the total imports, the edible oil shipments fell to 9,67,852 tonne last month from 10,98,475 tonne in February 2023.Non-edible oils imports too fell to 7,000 tonne from 16,006 tonne in the year-ago period.During November 2023-February 2024 period, the overall import of vegetable oils declined 21 per cent to 46,47,963 tonne from 58,87,900 tonne in the corresponding period of the previous oil year.
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 01:18 PM IST with headline  Strategic policy reforms that can propel the Indian space sector to a faster growth trajectory is: 
 The upstream segment includes all activities such as manufacturing, launching and operation of space assets. By Dhwani Gada and Parth SanganiIndia created history in space technology with the successful landing of Chandrayaan-3 on the moon, also triggering a significant evolution and becoming a global powerhouse. Beyond these triumphs lies a new space era driven by the private sector and startups and supplemented by government initiatives.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe ambitious vision of India reaching a $44 billion space sector leader by 2033 is now on the horizon propelling India into further strides in space exploration. To fully unlock this potential, strategic policy reforms for the private sector are paramount, presenting both challenges and thrilling prospects on the path forward.Broadly the space value chain is categorised into(a) upstream segment
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 01:41 PM IST with headline  Global trade growth likely to accelerate in 2024: Report is: 
 Global trade growth likely to accelerate in 2024: Report Globalisation reached a record high in 2022 and stayed nearly as high in 2023, despite various global shocks over the past decade, such as the Covid-19 pandemic, wars in Ukraine and Gaza, and the US-China trade conflict, a report said on Wednesday.The "New DHL Global Connectedness Report 2024" by DHL and New York University's Stern School of Business, released here, also said that the share of global output traded internationally was back to a record high level in 2022.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAfter a slowdown in 2023, trade growth is forecast to accelerate in 2024, it said. Trade growth played a crucial role in boosting connectedness.The report tracks how flows of trade, capital, information, and people move around the world and measure the globalisation of 181 countries and territories.The globalisation of information flows has notably surged over the past two decades, even though the latest data show a slowdown in their growth, partly due to less research collaboration between the US and China.
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 12:19 PM IST with headline  Will Britain let China browbeat its universities? is: 
 Responding to complaints by promptly removing the source of irritation makes the commitment to academic freedom look hollow. (Source: Getty Images Europe/Bloomberg) In 2021, the Russell Group of 24 leading British universities published an unequivocal statement of its commitment to protecting academic freedom. The institutions would “always champion the importance of free speech,” the group’s chief executive officer wrote, noting that diverse views and disagreement were fundamental to advancing knowledge. The group might want to have a word with its biggest member. At University College London, terms and conditions appear to apply.A UCL lecturer was barred from teaching a research module she created and had been delivering for a decade after Chinese students complained that one of the exercises it contained was “provocative,” according to a thread she posted on Elon Musk’s X, following a report in the Telegraph newspaper. Michelle Shipworth, an associate professor of energy and social sciences, was told she’d been accused of bias, which was damaging the reputation of her employer and its prospects of attracting students from China.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIt’s no great surprise to see principle come out the loser in a perceived clash between academic ideals and commercial pragmatism. UCL, based in central London, has more Chinese students than any other Russell Group university: 10,785 in the 2021-22 academic year, according to data from the Higher Education Statistics Agency. That also represented the biggest share of enrollment among the universities: 23 percent of UCL’s total intake of more than 46,000 students. Considering that overseas students in the UK pay on average 2.4 times as much in tuition fees as their domestic counterparts, they provide a critical revenue stream that any administrator would be loath to jeopardise.Are these two imperatives really in conflict, though? The right not to be provoked or offended isn’t part of the deal in British education, in theory at least, and this is after all what all overseas students are paying for. “Universities must be places where students and staff can openly and rigorously question current orthodoxies and beliefs, and explore new areas of intellectual enquiry, regardless of whether this involves or leads to the expression of views and opinions that may be uncomfortable, offensive or upsetting,” the Office for Students, the UK’s independent higher education regulator, says on its web site.That spirit of fearless inquiry dates back to the medieval era, when the first European universities were established and granted control over their own affairs by papal edicts and royal charters. And before that, to ancient Greece and the Socratic method, which aims to foster critical-thinking skills via a dialogue in which the teacher poses challenging questions to the student.
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 12:13 PM IST with headline  Exclusive | Company law panel may call for more teeth against directors amid alleged irregularities at Byju's, others is: 
 The Committee is considering stronger regulations for unlisted companies The Company Law Committee (CLC), which was set up by the ministry of corporate affairs to review implementation of the Companies Act, 2013, is likely to make several recommendations to strengthen the law, a person aware of the development told Moneycontrol.Specifically, the panel may call for the law to be given more teeth to pin corporate governance lapses on directors. It may also seek to have personal guarantees defined, and bat for uniformity in litigation under various provisions.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“The committee has had 2-3 meetings in this regard so far,” said the person cited above.The panel is likely to finalise its recommendations over the next three months and submit them to the new government after elections, sources said.Directors are trustees of the money and property of a company; as defined by the Companies Act, they have fiduciary duties, are responsible for strategic decisions, corporate governance and legal compliance, and are accountable to shareholders. The directors are also liable to disclose any conflicts of interest they may have in transactions involving the company.
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 01:40 PM IST with headline  Chart of the Day | Quick commerce’s strengthening hold is a risk for kiranas as market growth is also slowing is: 
 The fall in kirana growth indicates the reasons may lie elsewhere. In 2023, the first three quarters saw India’s kirana trade grow at relatively healthy rates, partly aided by a low base effect. In 2022 the kirana channel had seen volume growth decline in all four quarters. But some recent strain has become visible, and we had as well.NielsenIQ data for the December 2023 quarter confirms a slippage in kirana growth, as it fell to 5.3 percent from 7.5 percen
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 09:19 AM IST with headline  India allows RBI to import gold without paying import levies is: 
 India allows RBI to import gold without paying import levies India has allowed its central bank to import gold without paying import levies, the government said in a notification issued late on Tuesday.Gold importers from the world's second biggest gold consumer need to pay basic customs duty and Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess (AIDC).Story continues below AdvertisementAs of September 2023, the Reserve Bank of India held 800.79 metric tonnes of gold, including gold deposits of 39.89 tonnes.Of that, 388.06 tonnes is held overseas and 372.84 tonnes is held domestically, according to the RBI's latest reserve management report
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 09:39 AM IST with headline  MC Pro Inside Edge: Mugul flies high with Indigo; bears take aim at Swan, DB Realty QIP, peers eye Desi Soros is: 
 With sentiment changing for the worse, QIP has once again become a buyer’s market Flying highThe block deal in InterGlobe Aviation appears to lifted the spirits of the Midcap Mugul and his followers. Besides Morgan Stanley, a few fund houses too are said to have nibbled at the stock during Monday’s bulk deal, But a good deal of heavy lifting is said to have been done by the Mugul & Co. With the supply overhang addressed for the time being, bulls are betting that they will be able to maintain altitud
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 08:51 AM IST with headline  Can India replicate the EFTA model in future trade deals? is: 
 Representative image HighlightsIndia signs trade agreement with the four-nation EFTAAs part of the deal, companies of EFTA states will invest $100 billion in India over 15 yearsIndia can withdraw tariff concession if EFTA fails to meet investment commitmentSuch a rider is included for the first time in any free trade dealThe TEPA is an example of how trade agreements could be executed in the futur
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 09:59 AM IST with headline  The strong case for a diversified portfolio allocation in FY25 is: 
 There is a favourable case to add duration to investor portfolios. In the coming months, the stock market’s focus on the upcoming national elections is set to intensify. In fact, major countries including India, the US, UK, Brazil and Russia are set to go to the polls. Besides elections, the timing of the US Federal Reserve interest rate cuts and any geopolitical uncertainty will weigh on markets. In this backdrop, the big question for investors is how to approach the markets and their investments. Maybe it is tim
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 08:17 AM IST with headline  A tale of two inflations is: 
 The rural food retail inflation index is up by almost a fifth in the last three years HighlightsRetail inflation in India continued to be higher than targetIn India, food inflation is the culprit while core inflation is fallingInflation expectations in India have remained persistently highIn the US, February inflation remains stubbornly highInflation expectations have edged up in the USThe US markets shrugged off the inflation printThe markets believe Powell will not do anything to spoil the part
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 08:09 AM IST with headline  IIP numbers paint a very different picture from upbeat GDP data is: 
 - The key questions that the industrial production data were supposed to answer were: has the production of consumer goods improved and has capital goods production gone up? The answers to these questions would enable us to gauge the state of consumer demand in the country as well as whether capex, especially corporate capex, is picking up, as widely hoped.Well, the index of industrial production for January 2024 was u
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 10:28 AM IST with headline  February inflation would be at 4.7% if CPI was calculated using 2022-23 consumer survey: SBI is: 
 Data released by the statistics ministry on March 12 showed India’s headline retail inflation stood at 5.09 percent in February. India's headline retail inflation rate would have been 40 basis points lower in February if the Consumer Price Index (CPI) measure was constructed using the results of the latest Consumer Expenditure Survey (CES)."Recent release of CES may have an impact on food CPI and subsequently on overall CPI as the weights of major food items has (been) revised from 47.8 percent in 2011-12 to 42.8 percent in 2022-23 at all India level," Soumya Kanti Ghosh, State Bank of India's Group Chief Economic Adviser, said in a report on March 12.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: Consumer Expenditure Survey offers a look into the next CPI inflation series"Since CPI is the basis for the Reserve Bank of India's monetary policy decisions it should be appropriately calculated. By substituting existing weights with new weights, the new headline CPI is lower than the old headline CPI in the recent period by around 40 basis points," Ghosh added.Data released by the statistics ministry on March 12 showed CPI inflation stood at 5.09 percent in February, largely unchanged from 5.10 percent in January. However, inflation remained steady even as food inflation rose to 8.66 percent from 8.30 percent.
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 06:17 AM IST with headline  Commodity Trade: Gold Mini has formed an evening star candlestick pattern is: 
 Commodity trad
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 06:17 AM IST with headline  Options Trade | A non-directional options strategy setup in Infosys is: 
 infosy
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 06:17 AM IST with headline  Cash Trade: Torrent Power shows strength in a weak market is: 
 Torrent Powe
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 02:21 AM IST with headline  Inflation and IIP data meet expectations, but concerns remain is: 
 The Consumer Price Index and Index of Industrial Production are two of the most important high-frequency indicators of the state of the Indian economy. If it is becoming increasingly difficult to forecast India's quarterly and annual GDP growth rates, at least high-frequency monthly data are more predictable.Data released by the statistics ministry on March 12 showed the headline retail inflation rate was stable at 5.09 percent in February compared to 5.10 percent in January. Economists surveyed by Moneycontrol had said Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation would come in at 5.1 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: Explained – 'Discrepancies' in GDP data and how they affect headline growth rateSimilarly, industrial growth as measured by the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) decelerated to 3.8 percent in January, only slightly lower than the consensus view of 4.2 percent.But despite being along expected lines, both the monthly economic indicators contain some cause for concern.
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 08:10 PM IST with headline  Oil prices steady as OPEC retains demand forecasts is: 
 Oil prices steady as OPEC retains demand forecasts Oil prices were little changed on Tuesday as OPEC stuck by its forecast for demand growth this year and next, amid persistent tensions in the Middle East and beyond.Brent futures for May delivery were up 24 cents at $82.45 a barrel by 1420 GMT. The April U.S. West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude contract rose 31 cents at $78.24.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn Tuesday, OPEC stuck to its forecast for relatively strong growth in global oil demand in 2024 and 2025, and further raised its economic growth forecast for this year saying there was more room for improvement.The monthly report from the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) is expected later on Tuesday, while the International Energy Agency (IEA), which advises industrialised nations, is anticipated to put out its estimates on Thursday."While we believe the estimates will be largely unchanged, any upside surprise will ease demand concerns," ANZ analysts said.
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 07:58 PM IST with headline  US dollar gains after stronger-than-expected inflation data is: 
 US dollar gains after stronger-than-expected inflation data The U.S. dollar rose in choppy trading on Tuesday, after data showed hotter-than-expected inflation last month for the world's largest economy, slightly paring back expectations of an interest rate cut by the Federal Reserve at its June policy meeting.It was a volatile session, with the U.S. dollar initially jumping after the data, then falling and eventually rising after the market digested the report. The dollar index was last up 0.3% at 103.06.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Labor Department report showed that the Consumer Price Index (CPI) rose 0.4% in February, in line with the forecast for a 0.4% increase. On a year-on-year basis, the CPI gained 3.2%, compared with the estimated 3.1% rise.Excluding volatile food and energy components, the core figure rose 0.4% month-on-month in February, compared with an estimated 0.3% rise. Annually, it gained 3.8%, compared with the forecast of a 3.7% increase."The inflation situation is going to likely drag out for several more months, thus possibly keeping the first Fed rate cut still on the sidelines for a bit longer than expected," said Russell Price, chief economist at Ameriprise Financial Services in Troy, Michigan.
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 07:09 PM IST with headline  Nasdaq leads Wall St higher as rate-sensitive growth stocks rally post US CPI data is: 
 Nasdaq leads Wall St higher as rate-sensitive growth stocks rally post US CPI data The tech-heavy Nasdaq climbed on Tuesday, led by gains in rate-sensitive growth and chip stocks, as traders held on to bets that the FederalReserve will cut rates in the coming months following inflation data.Story continues below AdvertisementThe Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 113.66 points, or 0.29%, at the open to 38,883.32.The S&P 500 opened higher by 16.36 points, or 0.32%, at 5,134.30, while the Nasdaq Composite gained 97.71 points, or 0.61%, to 16,116.98 at the opening bell
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 07:26 PM IST with headline  US consumer inflation up unexpectedly in February is: 
 US consumer inflation up unexpectedly in February Underlying US inflation topped forecasts for a second month in February as prices jumped for used cars, air travel and clothes, reinforcing the Federal Reserve’s cautious approach to cutting interest rates.The so-called core consumer price index, which excludes food and energy costs, increased 0.4% from January, according to government data out Tuesday. From a year ago, it advanced 3.8%.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdEconomists see the core gauge as a better indicator of underlying inflation than the overall CPI. That measure climbed 0.4% from January and 3.2% from a year ago, boosted by gasoline prices, Bureau of Labor Statistics figures showed. BloombergAfter a brisk January reading, the report adds to evidence that inflation is proving stubborn, which is keeping central bankers wary of easing policy too soon. Chair Jerome Powell suggested last week that he and his colleagues are getting close to the level of confidence they need to start lowering rates, but some officials have expressed they’d like to see a broader pullback in prices first.
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 02:22 AM IST with headline  India’s January IIP growth at 3.8% versus 4.2% in December is: 
 The Index of Industrial Production, or IIP, is a key indicator of India’s monthly activity levels. Growth in India's industrial output decelerated to 3.8 percent in January, according to data released by the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation on March 12.At 3.8 percent, the latest industrial growth figure as per the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) is unchanged from the December 2023 figure of 3.8 percent. That number was on March 12 revised higher to 4.2 percent by the statistics ministry. This was to be expected after the commerce ministry revised upwards core sector growth for December to 4.9 percent from 3.8 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe eight core industries – coal, crude oil, natural gas, refinery products, fertilisers, steel, cement, and electricity – make up around 40 percent of the IIP. As such, it is seen as a lead indicator of industrial growth data.Meanwhile, for April 2023-January 2024, industrial growth stood at 5.9 percent as against 5.5 percent in April 2022-January 2023.
 
The news published on the date March 13, 2024 02:23 AM IST with headline  India's February CPI inflation at 5.09%, core inflation drops further to 3.3% is: 
 As per the RBI’s latest forecast, headline retail inflation is seen averaging 5.0 percent in the first quarter of 2024. India's headline retail inflation rate was largely unchanged at 5.09 percent in February, according to data released by the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation on March 12.The Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation print in January was 5.10 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAlso Read: India Inc's inflation expectation settling around 4.3%, shows IIM surveyAt 5.09 percent, the latest headline retail inflation figure is as per expectations, with economists having predicted prices likely rose 5.1 percent year-on-year according to a Moneycontrol survey.
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 04:54 PM IST with headline  Bank of Japan leaning toward exiting negative rates in March: Sources is: 
 Bank of Japan leaning toward exiting negative rates in March: Sources A growing number of Bank of Japan policymakers are warming to the idea of ending negative interest rates this month on expectations of hefty pay hikes in this year's annual wage negotiations, four sources familiar with its thinking said.Upon ending negative rates, the central bank is also likely to overhaul its massive stimulus programme that consists of a bond yield control and purchases of riskier assets, they said.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBut an imminent shift is a close call as there is no consensus within the nine-member board on whether to pull the trigger at its upcoming March 18-19 meeting, or hold off at least until the subsequent meeting on April 25-26, they say.Many BOJ policymakers are closely watching the outcome of big firms' annual wage negotiations with unions on March 13, and the first survey results to be released by labour umbrella Rengo on March 15, to determine how soon to phase out their massive stimulus.Significant pay hikes will likely heighten the chance of action in March, as the offers by big firms usually set the tone for those by smaller firms nationwide, the sources said on condition of anonymity due to the sensitivity of the matter.
 
The news published on the date March 14, 2024 04:56 PM IST with headline  Higher CCI exemption may encourage companies to pursue M&A route for growth: Experts is: 
 The increased asset and revenue thresholds described above are applicable for a period of 2 years The government’s decision to raise the assets and revenue threshold for smaller business deals exempted from Competition Commission Of India (CCI) approval emphasises a strategic effort to encourage M&A activities while balancing regulatory oversight, experts said. With this, companies may be more inclined to pursue strategic acquisitions or mergers as part of their growth strategies.The government on March 8 announced that it would raise the threshold for combination filing i.e. smaller business deals, including mergers and acquisitions, to happen without the prior approval of the Competition Commission Of India (CCI).Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“The increased thresholds mean that smaller deals can happen without needing approval from the CCI. Companies may be more inclined to pursue strategic acquisitions or mergers as part of their growth strategies. This adjustment is anticipated to streamline the regulatory process for smaller scale acquisitions and mergers, making them more accessible and feasible for businesses operating within these parameters,” Rachit Sharma, Deputy General Manager, Taxmann told Moneycontrol.Combinations involving asset values up to Rs 450 crore and turnovers of Rs 1,250 crore are now exempted from seeking prior approval of CCI. There is a substantial increase from the previous thresholds of Rs 350 crore for assets and Rs 1,000 crore for turnover."This is a welcome move as stakeholders in the Indian M&A ecosystem have been looking forward to revised target exemption thresholds for a long time now. The increased thresholds will increase the number of M&A transactions exempted from a CCI notification requirement. The revised thresholds also pave the way for the deal value thresholds, which could see the light of the day soon,” Aparna Mehra, Partner, Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co., told Moneycontrol.
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 03:56 PM IST with headline  Rupee closes flat ahead of crucial US inflation print is: 
 Rupee closes flat ahead of crucial US inflation print The Indian rupee ended little changed after a rangebound Tuesday, ahead of crucial U.S. consumer inflation data that will help investors gauge the timing of interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve.The rupee closed at 82.7675 against 82.7575 in the previous session. It traded in a narrow 82.7250 to 82.7725 band for the session.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe Indian currency has been a beneficiary of persistent foreign inflows in the country's debt and equity markets but dollar purchases from importers and possible intervention by the central bank have limited gains, traders said."Technically, the rupee is expected to consolidate between 82.52 to 83.05 with a positive bias," Dilip Parmar, a foreign exchange research analyst at HDFC Securities, said.While foreign inflows are expected to remain favourable for rupee bulls, any risk-averse sentiment and likely dollar purchases by the central bank will limit the rupee's rise, he said.
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 07:38 PM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | India's aviation market: The winner takes it all is: 
 airlines Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdAviation is an alluring business. Many enter it, but few make money. And the ones who succeed rake in the moolah. Consider the latest developments in the industry. A stake sale in InterGlobe Aviation fetched its co-founder more money than the entire market value of SpiceJet.Of course, the sizes of both companies vary hugely. Even then, investors should note the valuation gap. IndiGo commands a higher valuation reflecting its consistent track record and superior operating metrics.SpiceJet, despite ownership changes, faced financial pressures for a long time. Shares of the company plunged in Tuesday’s trade on reports that two senior executives are exiting the company.
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 01:18 PM IST with headline  Stock markets undergo ‘risk reset’ as indices notch new records is: 
 - Jennifer Hughes in New York and George Steer in LondonGrowing optimism about the world economy and improved corporate earnings is driving stock markets to record highs, prompting analysts to forecast further gains in what some describe as a “risk reset”.Wall Street’s S&P 500, the tech-dominated Nasdaq Composite, Japan’s Nikkei 225, Germany’s Dax and France’s CAC 40, among other indices, have all hit their highest-ever levels in recent weeks, amid hopes that central banks have succeeded in taming inflatio
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 01:39 PM IST with headline  India's exports will close fiscal at same level as last year despite uncertainties: Piyush Goyal is: 
 India's exports will close fiscal at same level as last year despite uncertainties: Piyush Goyal Commerce and Industry minister Piyush Goyal has exuded confidence that during this fiscal, the country's goods and services export numbers will be at the same level; as it was last year despite slowdown and uncertainties in the global trade.He also said that the government measures such production-linked incentives schemes and focus on high-quality goods and services would help in containing the country's trade deficit.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdSo our trade deficit will be significantly lower than last year."I am happy to share with you that we close the current year in March at the same level as last year. We have a little bit of an adjustment between goods and services, but collectively we will be at the same level as last year, which will be a very, very significant achievement given that most developing countries and less developed countries are seeing a fall in their international trade," Goyal told PTI in an interview.Cumulatively, the country's merchandise exports in April-January 2023-24 contracted by 4.89 per cent to USD 353.92 billion. The estimated value of services exports during the ten-month period stood at USD 84.45 billion.
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 02:57 PM IST with headline  The Macro Puzzle: What explains the big divergence between GDP and GVA is: 
 The difference between GDP and GVA is based on the growth rated in taxes and subsidies. The National Statistics Office (NSO) at the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation recently released a press note on the GDP (Gross Domestic Product) estimates for third quarter (Q3) 2023-24 and also the second advance estimates for the entire year 2023-24.The NSO noted that the GDP growth for Q3 2023-24 was expected at 8.4 percent and for the entire 2023-24 at 7.6 percent. In the first advance estimates in January 2024, NSO had estimated annual GDP growth for 2023-24 at 7.3 percent. The data completely surprised markets which had expected GDP growth for Q3 2023-24 at 6.5 percent.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdOn a closer look at the data, analysts found that there was a large gap between GDP and GVA (Gross Value Added). While GVA is expected to grow at 6.5 percent in Q3 2023-24, the GDP is expected to grow at 8.4 percent. The wide variation puzzled markets and has led to a lot of discussions in the financial media.We need to understand some basics to understand the puzzle.The statistical authorities calculate GDP via three methods: Production/Sectoral, Expenditure, and Income. For the context of this article, we focus on the production approach.
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 12:23 PM IST with headline  What ‘Barbie’ can teach working-class men is: 
 So how can men move forward when the traditional roles and economic pathways no longer hold the same promise? Economists spend a lot of time talking about jobs. Work is not only how people support themselves financially, it can also be the way in which they contribute to society, create unique identities and find meaning in the world. When work disappears or shifts, people can feel as unmoored and confused as Ken in Greta Gerwig’s Barbie, who had one last moment in the spotlight at last night’s Academy Awards, when Ryan Gosling performed the Oscar-nominated song “I’m Just Ken.”Gosling lost — to his fellow Barbie nominee Billie Eilish — just as Ken is emotionally lost in Barbieland. Ken’s identity crisis, born from the lack of a clearly defined purpose, mirrors a narrative that has been unfolding for American working-class men for decades. The economy has shifted beneath their feet, leaving many like Ken: struggling with a mix of anger, hurt and confusion.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdIn the mid-1960s, roughly a third of US jobs involved manufacturing and other goods-producing sectors. Men held roughly 80 percent of those jobs. In the decades since, the number of jobs in the goods-producing sector has been largely stable. At the same time, the service sector has exploded, adding about 100 million jobs.Men still hold 77 percent of jobs in the goods-producing sector. Unfortunately, the US and global economy have moved on — and the shift has happened without the creation of a new narrative for men. So working-class men like Ken are stumbling around a socioeconomic landscape seeking a foothold in a society that seems to have no role for them, largely eschewing the new working-class job opportunities in the service sector.The result is that job growth has disproportionately gone to women, 92% of whom work in services. But unlike in Barbieland, in the real world the division is not just between men and women, but between college-educated and working-class men. Men with college and advanced degrees have high labor force participation rates, high marriage rates and high earnings.These elite men have thrived in an economy that evolved to prioritise intellectual prowess.
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 12:24 PM IST with headline  Solar success is a curse for China’s manufacturers is: 
 China’s glut of solar panels. (Source: Bloomberg) Ever since photovoltaic cells started popping up on pocket calculators and building roofs a few decades ago, solar power has faced a key drawback: It’s a nice technology, but there’s simply not enough of it to make a difference. Right now, it’s facing the opposite difficulty.The tidal wave of investment panels has swelled to the point that it is threatening to overwhelm the global industry. Amid the onslaught of cheap Chinese-made modules, overseas manufacturers have either walled themselves off behind tariff barriers (as in India and the US) or resigned themselves to extinction, as in Europe. Now, even the Chinese companies blamed for the current glut are panicking.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdBeijing should introduce bidding rules to prevent low-quality, below-cost products being put onto the market, Zhong Baoshen, chairman of the biggest panel maker, Longi Green Energy Technology Co, said last week. The slump in prices is so drastic that there is now “no profit across the entire supply chain,” Gao Jifan, Zhong’s counterpart at third-placed Trina Solar Co, told a BloombergNEF summit last November.On the face of it, this sounds like a great problem to have. From the perspective of manufacturing, the solar bit of the path to net zero is already pretty much solved. The world will need to be installing about 650 gigawatts of solar a year in 2030 to avoid catastrophic climate change, according to the International Energy Agency. But major manufacturers have already built about 783GW of annual production capacity and we might hit the IEA’s 2030 installation target this year, according to BloombergNEF.The hitch in all this is that it’s a lot harder to connect a solar panel than it is to make one. Utilities and even households face regulatory, political and logistical roadblocks joining the grid. As a result, BloombergNEF expects more than half of manufacturing capacity to go unused this year and next. Module costs have already fallen by more than half over the past two years. The current excess suggests further price declines are to come, which is great news for consumers, but terrible for manufacturers.
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 12:30 PM IST with headline  Vanke, the developer that will break China’s back if allowed to default is: 
 A developer worth saving. (Source: Bloomberg) A third year into a property downturn, China is still seeking market-oriented solutions. Insolvent developers must be prepared for bankruptcy, the housing ministry warned at the weekend. As for projects with decent prospects but under temporary credit stress, state-owned banks have earmarked billions of dollars in loans to ensure their completion.Unusual times call for extraordinary measures. As China Vanke Co, one of the nation’s largest developers, faces a liquidity crunch, it is clear that market forces have turned toxic and a state-engineered bailout is in order. Moody’s Ratings cut the well-regarded Vanke to junk on Monday.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe company’s biggest hurdle is the lack of clarity on future sales. Thanks to managerial prudence, it fared fairly well in 2023 next to peers such as Country Garden Holdings Co. Contracted sales fell by only 10 percent to 376 billion yuan ($52.4 billion). However, the overall market may be turning for the worse this year. A recent survey by China Index Academy indicates that less than 20 percent of respondents plan to buy a home in the next six months, versus close to 30 percent a year ago. Moody’s estimates that Vanke’s contracted sales declined around 40 percent to 34.5 billion yuan in January and February, a sharp deterioration from a year ago.Property development is a scale business. Vanke’s operating margin has tumbled from 29 percent at its 2019 peak to 8.4 percent in the September quarter, according to the latest data available. In the first nine months of 2023, it notched only 31 billion yuan in operating profit, a 23 percent drop from a year earlier.The developer’s volatile operating conditions perhaps explain why even state-owned financial institutions are apprehensive. Vanke is facing resistance from China’s two state-owned banks on a new HK$4.5 billion ($575 million) offshore syndicated loan. In a rare intervention, China’s cabinet has asked large lenders to step up their support, Reuters reported.
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 06:52 AM IST with headline  Cash Market: NLC India Limited shows strength in a weak market is: 
 NLC Indi
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 06:44 AM IST with headline  India finally embraces trade deals as companies look past China is: 
 India finally embraces trade deals as companies look past China Gautam Nair is preparing to ramp up production at his clothing factory in Gurugram, betting on a surge of orders from brands like Marks & Spencer and Next as India pursues more free trade pacts with the rest of the world.Within three years, he expects Matrix Clothing Pvt Ltd.’s exports to the European Union and the UK to more than double from current levels. “The industry is very excited,” Nair, who co-founded the company, said by phone.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdPrime Minister Narendra Modi’s government is taking advantage of India’s growing appeal as the world’s fastest-growing major economy and an alternative to China for global supply chains to clinch a number of free trade pacts. India expects its deals with countries from the UK to Australia will help boost its manufacturing and soak up the tens of millions of young people entering the workforce in the years ahead.The latest, and among the most ambitious, was a trade and investment pact signed with four European countries, including Switzerland and Norway, on March 10. It signaled India’s readiness to take on commitments in areas such as labor, environment and sustainability and gender — topics it had shied away from in the past. It was also the first time India secured an investment commitment — of $100 billion over 15 years — in such a deal.India has now signed four FTAs in quick succession since 2021 after a gap of about nine years where no agreements were inked. The latest pact with the European bloc of countries, known as the European Free Trade Association, or EFTA, was hailed by Modi and comes just weeks before elections in which he’s seeking to extend his decade in power.
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 06:36 AM IST with headline  Cash Trade: Price action in SBI Life Insurance shows a breakout-pullback trend is: 
 SBI Life insuranc
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 06:35 AM IST with headline  Options Trade: A non-directional options strategy in JSW Steel is: 
 JSW stee
 
The news published on the date March 12, 2024 02:35 AM IST with headline  Moneycontrol Pro Panorama | Does the wisdom of crowds hold true in the IPO market? is: 
 The recent regulatory action against IPO financing brings the issue of oversubscription back into the spotlight. Dear Reader,The Panorama newsletter is sent to Moneycontrol Pro subscribers on market days. It offers easy access to stories published on Moneycontrol Pro and gives a little extra by setting out a context or an event or trend that investors should keep track of. Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdYou are in a new city, in a lane famous for its street food or ‘khau galli’ as Mumbaikars affectionately call these lanes that dot the city. Going to the first one you are drawn to or to one that looks less beaten-up are acceptable ways of choosing where to eat. But the most time-tested way, you will agree, is to go to the stall that’s most crowded. It may not be an efficient option as wait times will be longer, but when it comes to eating food that’s not only cooked with love but also by the sweat of the brow, there’s a certain safety in crowds that we crave.The lack of information in that market and on the adventure’s outcome on your health, as opposed to little fear in entering a reputed restaurant even when it’s empty, is what makes selling a complex job. Investment bankers know this all too well, just see how retail investors allow themselves to get manipulated in IPOs, when they see a crowd jostling for an allotment and don’t even bother to see what’s on the menu before putting their own application in.Why do retail investors do this when they can buy shares without the noise in the secondary market. This question is not new and neither are the answers, which can include novelty, listing gains, believing they are entering at the first floor and will hence earn higher returns and market euphoria.
 
The news published on the date March 11, 2024 10:27 PM IST with headline  Advertising: Don’t believe what you see in the age of AI ads is: 
 The Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) is carefully reviewing the use of generative AI. Advertising has always walked a thin line between embellishment and fabrication. In the new age of generative artificial intelligence, the latter is becoming easier. Making an online ad no longer requires careful staging of well-lit photographs because now they can be made and enhanced in fantastical ways. Consumers need to sharpen their wits as we move from unnaturally juicy hamburgers to depictions of people and food that aren’t physically plausible. Consider this bizarre pasta concoction that Instacart, the grocery-delivery service, used in its recent marketing:Instacart has now deleted the Frankenstein’s monster of food and recipes that don’t (or probably shouldn’t) exist, which included fare like “watermelon popsicles with chocolate chips,” which appears to have been conjured with new image-generation tools. But it wasn’t alone. Restaurants that sell food exclusively through delivery apps like DoorDash and Just Eat Takeaway.com NV’s Grubhub have also used images of unidentifiable breaded objects on their pasta, according to 404 Media.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdTopping them all was a recent Willy Wonka exhibition in Glasgow, Scotland, whose AI-generated posters suggested ticket holders would stroll through a vivid world of ceiling-high lollipops and chocolate bars. They instead entered a bleak, grey warehouse scattered with some cheap props:Generative AI has allowed for even more sinister marketing, something Olga Loiek found out the hard way last December. The 20-year-old student was dabbling in the art of being a YouTube influencer when she discovered dozens of video advertisements of her hawking candy on Chinese social media sites. Loiek doesn’t speak the language, but her unauthorised likeness did.A raft of other influencers and celebrities have been cloned to endorseeverything from language apps to self-help courses, all without their permission. But it’s surprising that Loiek was picked to front a promotion too. She was relatively green on YouTube, having only posted eight videos for a month before the deepfaked videos started cropping up. Loiek thinks her cloners might have been drawn to her “Slavic” looks to appeal to Chinese consumers who support Russia. “This audience might like my avatar… and in the end they’re more likely to buy the product,” she says. The deepfakes, which she says were in the hundreds, found their way to the Chinese Instagram-style platform Xiaohongshu and video-sharing site BiliBili. Here’s an example:
 
The news published on the date March 11, 2024 02:03 PM IST with headline  Govt aims to reduce time taken for voluntary closure of companies to 3 months: Official is: 
 The processing of application for incorporating a company has now come down to only two days. In a bid to boost ease of doing business, the government aims to further bring down the time taken for voluntary closure of companies to three months, in line with international standards, a senior corporate affairs ministry official said.The time taken for voluntary closure has already come down to 110 days since the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) operationalised Centralised Processing for Accelerated Corporate Exit (C-PACE) on May 1, 2023.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad“After C-PACE was set up the average time for voluntary closure of companies till February 15, 2024, is at 110 days i.e. less than four months. But it can be improved to three months in line with international standards. Ease of exit for companies was lagging till two years back. A voluntary closure application needs to be filed, which used to take 18 months on average for processing earlier,” the official told Moneycontrol.However, any further reduction in the timeline will be a challenge because after the promoters apply for voluntary closure, C-PACE gives at least 30 days for the company to respond to MCA. After the response on closure is received from the company, other processes are to be followed, he added.Ease of entry
 
The news published on the date March 11, 2024 01:28 PM IST with headline  Incomes of female self-help group members tripled during FY19-FY24, says SBI economist is: 
 The rural female Labour Force Participation rate has risen from 21.7 percent in 2017-18 (July-June) to 34.6 percent in 2022-23. Incomes of female members of India's self-help groups (SHGs) has more than tripled in the last five years, according to an analysis by Soumya Kanti Ghosh, State Bank of India's Group Chief Economic Adviser.Writing in a report on March 11, Ghosh said that the Covid pandemic had created opportunities for SHGs to "exponentially" increase their activities. Taking 2018-19 as the base year, Ghosh found that the income credited in female SHG members' bank accounts is set to increase from Rs 100 to Rs 307 as per the data available for the first nine months of 2023-24.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe biggest income increase was seen in female SHG members in urban areas, who this year are set to earn Rs 462 if their income in 2018-19 is assumed to be Rs 100. And while rural SHG members have seen a smaller increase in their incomes, Ghosh noted that "65 percent of rural SHG members have moved into Upper Quantiles (in) FY24 when compared to FY19".When these members are considered by age, the biggest income jump – 4.7 times – has been for those younger than 27 years.
 
The news published on the date March 11, 2024 02:17 PM IST with headline  How Indians will benefit from trade deal with European Free Trade Association  is: 
 EFTA consists of four nations – Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, and Switzerland. The India-European Free Trade Association (EFTA) trade deal, signed on March 10, will provide access to a number of products, including wine, Swiss chocolates and watches to Indians at a much lower price. Presently, India levies an import duty of 30 percent on chocolates and chocolate products and 20 percent on most variants of watches from Switzerland.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe EFTA consists of four nations – Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, and Switzerland.The effective duty on gold however remains untouched. Sectors such as dairy, soya, coal and sensitive agricultural products are kept in the exclusion list.The agreement also includes a $100 billion investment commitment from the EFTA countries in India in the next 15 years.
 
The news published on the date March 11, 2024 12:49 PM IST with headline  Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, number of other countries want to start rupee trade with India: Piyush Goyal is: 
 Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, number of other countries want to start rupee trade with India: Piyush Goyal Many developed and developing countries including Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, and nations of the Gulf region are keen to start trade in rupee with India as it would help cut transaction costs for businesses, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal has said.He expressed confidence that the development is going to be a "very game-changing" dimension to India's international trade.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove Ad"Bangladesh, Sri Lanka are already talking to us and they want us to start this immediately. Other countries in the Gulf region are looking at that. I think it'll take some time for people to see the benefits. And then we'll have more and more developed countries and countries in the Far East also joining the bandwagon. Singapore is already on board to some extent," he said.The minister added that gradually countries are realising that undertaking trade in domestic currencies has several advantages.The minister said that it is now picking up traction and a lot of countries have come forward for this arrangement and are talking to India for that as they would also like to initiate direct transactions between their local currency and the rupee.
 
The news published on the date March 11, 2024 11:37 AM IST with headline  Chart of the Day: Asia's capex cycle gears for an upshift is: 
 Asia sees light at end of capex tunnel A key question for the government and investors is whether India’s private capex cycle will pick up or not. The answer to this question could determine whether its investment-led growth engine can keep chugging along and take along a clutch of related sectors. It’s not just India where the state of capex is a matter of attention but in Asia ex-Japan too, as a recent research note by Nomura’s Global Economics team points out.(image) In 2023, Asia’
 
The news published on the date March 11, 2024 11:32 AM IST with headline  An (almost) inverted yield curve is worrying China is: 
 An asset famine is driving risk-taking among China’s investors. (Source: Bloomberg) A curious thing is happening in China’s 29 trillion yuan ($4 trillion) government bond market.The yield differential between 30- and 10-year bonds has narrowed to as little as 11 basis points, sparking discussions over whether some parts of the sovereign curve will invert too, like it did in the US.Story continues below AdvertisementRemove AdThe yield curve may be getting flatter because of temporary market dynamics, not fundamentals. Much of the compression came from a strong rally in ultra-long notes. The 30-year is offering only 2.4 percent, an almost 1 percentage point drop from a year earlier. It’s even lower than the 2.5 percent one-year loan rate at which the People’s Bank of China lends to big financial institutions.Spooked by a January stock market rout, households pulled money out of equities and poured their savings into bond funds, whose solid returns turned out to be a bright spot. Meanwhile, a slowdown in new offeringsfrom higher-yielding local government financing vehicles is pushing asset managers to purchase more ultra-long sovereign notes in order to juice up their portfolio returns.Whatever the reason, an inverted yield curve has a bad rap. In normal times, notes with longer maturities offer higher rates to compensate lenders for tying up their money for an extended period. When those yields sink close to or below shorter ones, it’s an indication that investors are pessimistic about an economy’s growth prospects. In the US, an inversion was a reliable predictor of recessions, at least in the pre-pandemic days.
 
